This amiibo is not compatible.
This is not an amiibo! Please remove it from the bottom screen.
Could not read amiibo because wireless communication was disabled. Please enable wireless communication, and then try again.
There was an error while trying to read/write to the amiibo. Please try again.
This amiibo cannot be used, as it already contains data for another game. It can only be used if its data is deleted from "amiibo Settings" in the HOME Menu Settings.
This amiibo cannot be used yet. Please go to Register amiibo first.
The data on this amiibo is corrupted. Restore amiibo data? 
Restore
Don't restore
The data on this amiibo is corrupted. It can be restored from a gaming system that was previously used with this amiibo.
Otherwise, you can restore the amiibo to its original settings from "amiibo Settings" in HOME Menu Settings.
An error occured while reading/writing to the amiibo. Please try again.
Please power on the NFC Reader/Writer and face its infrared transceiver toward that of the Nintendo 3DS system.
An error occurred while writing to the amiibo. Please try again.
It is possible that the data on this amiibo is corrupted.
This is not an amiibo! Please remove it from the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer.
The amiibo data will be restored. Please hold the amiibo to the NFC area. (Press the  Button to cancel.)
This is not the correct amiibo. Please remove it from the NFC area.
This save data is corrupted. Initialize save data? 
No
Yes
Initializing save data. Please wait...
Press  to return to the HOME Menu.
The Game Card has been removed. Press  to return to the HOME Menu.
The NFC Reader/Writer requires an update. 
Quit
Update
Restoring amiibo data... Please keep holding the amiibo to the NFC area.
Failed to restore amiibo data.
Successfully restored amiibo data.
This amiibo does not have an owner or nickname registered to it. Please register an owner and nickname.
You can only register the same character's amiibo two times. This character's amiibo has already been registered twice.
Register owner and nickname? 
Don't register
Register
An IR communication error has occurred. Please turn your Nintendo 3DS system off and try again.
If this problem persists, please contact the Nintendo Customer Service center using the contact information in the e-manual.
Communication with the NFC Reader/Writer has failed.
Please reset the power on the NFC Reader/Writer and try again.
If this problem persists, please contact the Nintendo Customer Service center using the contact information in the e-manual.
This amiibo is not compatible with Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga +Bowser's Minions
Would you like to go to Register amiibo so you can use this amiibo in Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga +Bowser's Minions? 
No
Yes
