Basics #2: Damage and Defeat Foes
Thunder Tickle
Press the  Button to make Luigi jump out of the ground. Do this while he is beneath a hollow to dig up buried beans.
Decisive Battleground DX
Attacking with JUMP
If Luigi pops up while beneath a foe, said foe will go flying into the air. When it lands, it will be unable to move for a short period of time.
Climbing DX
Watch and Learn
If you find that Bros. Attacks are too difficult to perform, try utilizing Easy Attack Mode.
Walk into enemies while they are in a dizzy state to start a battle.
Let's Go! DX
Princess Peach is coming to the Beanbean Kingdom! Go and greet her at Beanbean Airport.
Basics #3: Watch Mario & Luigi's HP
Mario and Luigi can also perform actions during enemy attacks. They can do a jump guard when either of them crouches down.
Although this mode requires more BP, it makes it easier to successfully time Bros. Attacks.
Change the Action Icon to Thunder, and then press and hold  to shoot a blast of thunder.
We Can't Lose! DX
You've cleared the runway, so now it's time to go welcome Princess Peach.
Jump Guard
Press either character button to jump.
Press the  Button when selecting an attack to enable Easy Attack Mode.
The Marvelous Duo DX
Head to Beanbean Castle and Beanbean Castle Town to look around a bit.
Touch a Mario amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
Press  when Luigi swings his Hammer over his head. Mario will become Mini Mario!
You can avoid enemy attacks by jumping at the right moment. Time your jumps to land on enemies and deal damage as well.
Basics #4: Win Battles, Get Stronger
The amount of damage the attack deals will not be affected, so give it a try for attacks you're having trouble with.
You can go to the menu screen to use items you have acquired.
Time to Settle This! DX
Head to the Hammer craftsmen's house first. It's by the east exit of Beanbean Castle Town.
Touch a Luigi amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
Super Chopper Bros.
Mini Mario will ask Luigi for help. During that time, press the  Button.
Enemy Encounters
Be sure to restore your HP and BP before battle if they are low.
Showdown with Cackletta! DX
Remove equipped item
Head to Little Fungitown with Princess Peach. It's through the valley above Beanbean Castle.
Touch a Peach amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
Cost
This move can hit two enemies. Press the  Button before Luigi jumps on Mario.
Press the  Button whenever Luigi's swings are about to hit Mario!
Basics #5: Status Attributes
Mini Hammer
There are certain items that can only be used in battle. Check out new items as you receive them to learn more.
Danger Abounds!
Win & Dance DX
Take a look around Little Fungitown after you've taken a rest.
Touch a Yoshi amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
Press the  Button before hitting the ground to perform a big jump!
Mario will bounce back when he hits a foe. Luigi can then knock Mario into the foe again.
HAMMER
Woohoo Hooniversity
Let's Kick it into High Gear!
It's all up to Luigi now! Will he be able to pull through all by himself?
Touch a Toad amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
Get an Excellent rating by jumping on enemies using → in the correct order!
Press  when Mario smashes into a foe. Press  to hit him again when he returns!
If you select Easy Mode, Mario and Luigi will become stronger, and enemies will be easier to defeat.
Spin Jump
Another Sky for Toads
Look for the pieces of the shattered Beanstar. Start with the one that fell into Teehee Valley.
Touch a Bowser amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
... Do this successfully five times for an Excellent! Note that the speed gets faster!
After you've selected an attack, you can press the icon on the bottom screen to see an example of it or practice it.
You can select Easy Mode in the Options menu, or when you game over after losing a battle. Use it if you ever feel the game is too hard.
Sea...Sea...Sea...
Is there some way you can get the Beanstar piece back?
Touch a Bowser Jr. amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
Select DEMO to view a tutorial video. This is a great way to learn the timing of moves.
Don't Dwell on Danger
Swim into the water in pursuit of that floating Beanstar piece!
You can now place more stamps with your amiibo!
Touch a Goomba amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
In PRACTICE, you can try attacks for yourself. Keep at it until you've mastered them.
Move using the Circle Pad. The character in back will follow automatically.
Sweet Surfin'
You can now use stamps in the Stamp section of the Records menu. If you've gathered more, you can show them to a stamp collector!
Touch a Koopa Troopa amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
Super Splash Bros. 
Hold the Corny Jokes, Please!
Remove item
A new Stamp Sheet is now available from a certain stamp collector. You can show this amiibo to him to get it!
Touch a Boo amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
Use Jump to reach high places or to hit blocks.
Decisive Battleground
Mario and Luigi head to the Beanbean Kingdom to pursue the fiends who stole Princess Peach's voice.
If you stamp compatible amiibo stamps, you'll not only receive a little reward from the stamp collector, but you'll also receive items for use in Minion Quest: The Search for Bowser.
Swapping Characters
Certain types of blocks may open up new paths. If you see a suspicious block, try hitting it!
Climbing
The Koopa Cruiser was attacked by Fawful, and it crashed!
To receive items, you can place stamps from compatible amiibo on the Bowser's Minions Stamp Sheet or register amiibo in Minion Quest.
Select Bros. Attack to have Mario and Luigi work together to perform a special attack!
Let's Go!
Bowser is being held by Tolstar, the evil king of Stardust Fields!
If you use your registered amiibo to stamp a friend's stamp sheet, you can receive a Friendly Bonus on this save file!
Attack enemies with commands like JUMP and HAMMER to inflict damage. Victory is yours when their HP goes down to zero.
You can deal even more damage to enemies by successfully following button prompts during a Bros. Attack.
You defeated Tolstar! Bowser was sent flying...
Deal additional damage when attacking by pressing the right button and moving the Circle Pad at the right time.
Using these attacks will consume BP. You can restore BP by using items like Syrup.
Data has been successfully copied.
Mario and Luigi arrive in a town on a mountaintop.
This amiibo has been registered, and game data has been saved to it.
The button you need to press for this varies depending on the attack. Read the explanation on the bottom screen after selecting an action.
Since you're about to leave, you'd better stop by Beanbean Castle to say farewell.
Your way forward has been blocked by Fawful yet again!
Goomba Squad
The timing of your button presses will earn one of four possible ratings. Try to aim for the highest rating: Excellent!
Are Princess Peach and Prince Peasley safe?! Hurry to the castle!
Mario and Luigi meet with two Hammer craftsmen.
Koopa Troopa Squad
Make preparations and then take off! Wasn't there a way to fly...on the mountain...
You defeated Dragohoho at the top of the mountain!
Shy Guy Squad
Press  when Luigi swings his Hammer over his head. Mario will become Mini Mario!
There will be many fierce enemies in the castle. If you want, return to the surface to prepare.
You acquired Hammers!
Boo Squad
Change the Action Icon by pressing the  or  Button, or by tapping the icons on the bottom screen.
When Luigi jumps, tap the  Button! This will spin Mini Mario around at high speed!
Fire Dash
The Trio
Immediately set your Action Icon back to Jump by pressing the  and  Buttons at the same time.
Get many consecutive hits for an Excellent! You can attack enemies several times.
Everyone, Attack!
Goombas Galore
During the attack, you can change the foe you are targeting.
Minions, Our Minions!
Koopa Paratroopa Squad
When Mario starts to move forward, move the Circle Pad toward the foe you want to target.
Fighting Friends
So Many Shy Guys
Let's Talk Strategy
Beaucoup Boos
Press the  Button when the Hammer is above Luigi's head! Time it perfectly to earn an Excellent rating.
Bowser's Minions March
Attacks Dodged
When Mario throws a fireball, press the  Button quickly to make it grow.
Reading amiibo... Do not remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
Press  after you land. If your timing is right, you will score an extra attack! Time all of your attacks well and aim for an Excellent rating.
A New Adventure Begins DX
When the fire gets close to Luigi, hit it by pressing the  Button!
Writing data to the amiibo... Do not remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
The Bros. can both jump at the same time by pressing the  Button.
We're Off Again! DX
Mario and Luigi travel the ocean floor and make it back to the Beanbean Kingdom.
The bigger the flame, the better your chances of an Excellent! And the more damage you'll deal!
Once you've received a Stamp Sheet, you can touch a compatible amiibo to place a stamp.
Touch of Evil DX
The airport hasn't been cared for. It's overrun with Piranha Plants...
Once you've gathered major characters in Minion Quest, you'll be able to place stamps using compatible amiibo.
HAND
Prince Peasley's Theme DX
To equip badges...
Aha, I see you've got 'em right there!
Princess Peach's voice was NOT stolen! Prince Peasley's strategy was a success!
Action Icons
Splash Bros.
You can show your stamps to the guy who gave you the stamp sheet, and he'll give you an item!
Fawful Music DX
Select this icon.
Shiny, new passports! There's no greater joy.
The Hammer craftsmen have relocated. They can power up your Hammers now!
Bounce Bros.
Jump
But wait... WHAT?!
There aren't any photos!
Your Hammers were powered up!
Nickname
Chopper Bros.
Here you can view the gear and badge you have equipped.
Mario and Luigi have arrived in Little Fungitown.
Touch a Mario amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Special Guests?
Knockback Bros.
Press  when Luigi swings his Hammer over his head. Mario will become Mini Mario!
Press  when Luigi builds up thunder. When Mario's Hammer is above his head, press !
Firebrand
Now then, Mr. Mario! Time to equip the badge I just gave you!
Mario is bedridden after contracting Bean Fever!
Touch a Luigi amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Mario
Press the  Button whenever Luigi's Hammer is about to hit Mario!
Swing Bros.
When Luigi gets to the base of the foe's feet, press the  Button for an Excellent rating!
Cackletta possesses Bowser's body and kidnaps Princess Peach!
Touch a Peach amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Luigi
Press  when Mario hits an enemy. Nail all button inputs to earn an Excellent rating!
Successfully earn a Good rating or better to cause an item to drop.
Fire Bros.
If you succeed, there's a chance you'll lower the enemy's POW.
Use the  Button to perform actions as Mario.
Press the  Button when you're fully charged! Try for an Excellent rating.
This is where you can view all the tasty badges you've collected.
The Beanstar piece was taken into the ship.
Touch an amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Touch a Yoshi amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Princess Peach
Press  when Luigi and Mario hold hands! Keep holding the button to make them spin around.
Thunder Bros.
Super Cyclone Bros.
When you're all done perusing, you can pick a badge to equip.
Go ahead and try one on!
The Beanstar piece fell into the sea.
Touch a Toad amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Yoshi
This won't affect flying enemies.
They will keep spinning faster. The faster they spin, the more damage they will deal.
Cyclone Bros.
Press the  Button to equip the badge!
Touch a Bowser amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Toad
Press the  Button when Mario swings his Hammer over his head.
When Mario and Luigi reach top speed, let go of the  Button!
The Kingdom Called Beanbean DX
Touch a Bowser Jr. amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Bowser
When Luigi is directly under the enemy, press  to knock them into the air!
Press  when Luigi collides with a foe! Nail all button inputs to earn an Excellent rating!
Choose the Hand Attack to have Mario attack with fire and Luigi attack with thunder.
Beanish People DX
Touch a Goomba amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Bowser Jr.
Press  before Luigi jumps on Mario. Press when both are directly above the enemy!
If you knock Luigi back into the ground, you can hit your foe into the air again.
Press the  Button when Mario and Luigi touch to make them join together!
You can see Mario's and Luigi's various stats by checking out Status on the menu screen.
You will deal extra damage to enemies if you exploit their elemental weakness.
Castle of Beans DX
Touch a Koopa Troopa amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Goomba
Press the  Button when jumping on an enemy. Time all jumps well to get an Excellent rating!
To knock Luigi back underground, press the  Button when Luigi hits the ground.
Press  and  at once when you stomp on a foe. Don't let go to earn an Excellent rating!
Attributes are separated into HP, BP, POW, DEF, SPEED, and STACHE.
JUMP
Thunderhand
Chucklehuck Woods DX
You wish to see Queen Bean. She's probably in a castle...
Touch a Boo amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer to stamp.
Koopa Troopa
Then, press  when the foe hits the ground to make submerged Luigi knock them sky high!
HP shows a character's health. Taking damage causes it to decrease. Characters will faint if their HP reaches zero.
Touch the mini map icon on the bottom screen to display your current location.
Danger Abounds! DX
Is the castle OK? Can you get to Queen Bean?
---
... Continue this rhythm eight times to earn an Excellent rating!
Super Fire Bros.
BP shows how many Bros. Points you have. These are necessary for Bros. Attacks and will diminish as you use them.
Touch the mini map on the bottom screen and scroll around to view surroundiung areas.
Woohoo Hooniversity DX
Luckily, for the Mario Bros., fixing the plumbing should be a piece of cake!
POW shows a character's strength. The bigger that number is, the more damage that character will deal in battle.
You can also use the C Stick to see surrounding areas of the map. *Only available on New Nintendo 3DS systems.
Another Sky for Toads DX
The precious Beanstar inside the castle is in danger!
Mario has finally reunited with Luigi. All that's left is to return home to the Mushroom Kingdom...
DEF shows a character's defense. The bigger that number is, the less damage that character will receive in battle.
Tap the zoom icon to change the size of the map.
Sea...Sea...Sea... DX
 Which blend do you want? 
As Mario and Luigi embark on a grand adventure, another quest is unfolding somewhere nearby... So begins the story of Bowser's Minions!
You'll need a soda from the forest to return Queen Bean to normal.
Bowletta attacks using the airborne Bowser's Castle!
SPEED shows a character's quickness. The bigger that number is, the sooner a character can act in battle.
Select HAMMER to strike an enemy and inflict damage.
Touch the pin icon and move it around to reposition pins on the map.
Going Home DX
Don't Dwell on Danger DX
   It'll be ready by the time you push a button. 
Records
Luigi has been separated from Mario. Will he really be OK all by himself?
Mario and Luigi decide to head to Bowser's Castle to defeat Bowletta.
Defeat all enemies to win a battle and earn EXP for Mario and Luigi. Earn enough and their Levels will increase.
STACHE shows a character's lucky mustache power. A bigger number means more lucky hits and better deals when shopping.
Use the Hammer to attack spiky foes and other enemies that can't be jumped on.
Release the pin icon to place it. Use pins to mark any points of interest that you come across on your adventure.
A Feeling of Nostaluigi?
Sweet Surfin' DX
Get back the Beanstar that was stolen by Cackletta!
Mario and Luigi arrive at Bowser's Castle. It's finally time for the last battle!
As they grow in level, they will deal additional damage and their HP will increase, all of which will make defeating enemies easier.
You can remove any pin that you've placed by tapping it twice.
Mario is Everyone's Star
It seems Cackletta has snuck into Woohoo Hooniversity.
If you feel that enemies are getting too strong, fight foes that are easy for you to defeat, and proceed once you've increased your level.
When you get new gear, don't forget to equip it! After all, you will not receive any effects from unequipped gear.
Peach's Castle
The Beanstar fell into the basement. Hurry and get it back!
Sell
Super Knockback Bros.
Equip gear to your heart's content by tapping Gear on the menu screen.
Change the Action Icon to High, and then press → to perform a High Jump.
Stardust Fields Area 64
Where is this place? Can you get back to the Beanbean Kingdom?
Approach an elevated surface by sliding the Circle Pad forward to perform a High Jump. Do this to reach high places.
Hoohoo Mountaintop
When the Bros. are on each other's shoulders, you can move them both using the Circle Pad.
The Kingdom Called Beanbean
Hint messages will appear while Easy Mode is activated, or if you are defeated and choose to retry a battle.
Beanish People
Mario and Luigi lose HP when they are damaged by attacks. If either of them reaches 0 HP, they will faint and be unable to move.
Character Targeting
To view hints, press the Hint icon in the center of the bottom screen.
Character Movement
Castle of Beans
Equip now?
If Mario's and Luigi's HP both reach 0, it's game over!
Using Bros. Attacks
Hint messages contain valuable information, as well as tricks for defeating enemies. When you see a hint, try putting it to the test!
Character Controls
Chucklehuck Woods
Jump! (Ground Theme) DX
If that happens, you will have the option of retrying that battle from the beginning, or you can restart from your last save.
Emergency Guard
Use the  Button to perform actions as Mario, and use the the  Button to perform actions as Luigi.
Items
Press the  Button when the Hammer is above Mario's head! Time it perfectly to earn an Excellent rating.
Star 'Stache Smash!
Super Bounce Bros.
If a bro's HP gets low, or if they pass out, choose the Item block and use an item to recover.
Easy Mode
Gear
???
Fawful and Cackletta DX
Restore HP by using a Mushroom.
Hints
Saving
The Beanstar piece should be somewhere on this island... Search every corner!
If Mario or Luigi faint during battle, use a 1-Up Mushroom to help them recover.
Easy Attack Mode
The Map
Use the map to look for Beanstar pieces. It seems to be right above the castle...
Using items will eat into your supplies. You can acquire more items by defeating enemies or by purchasing them at shops.
Hold down the  Button during enemy attacks to guard. This will decrease the amount of damage you receive.
HAMMER Attacks
Character Movement
HAMMER
Use the map to look for Beanstar pieces. Maybe it's close to the airport entrance?
Select JUMP to stomp on an enemy and inflict damage.
If you encounter a foe that you can't defeat, use the Run block to flee. Run too often, however, and your team won't get stronger!
All monster attacks can be avoided, so there is no need to use Emergency Guard if you are confident you can dodge in time.
HAMMER Guard
Character Controls
Battles Fled
Use the map to look for Beanstar pieces. It looks like it fell into the forest...
Rubi Display
This type of attack is especially effective against flying units.
Try using Emergency Guard for enemy attacks that you don't think you can otherwise avoid.
HAND Attacks
Stamps
Delete this file?
Collect the Neon Eggs that the owner of Yoshi Theater requested of you.
Status Effects
Stamps
We Can't Lose!
Deleted game data cannot be restored. Are you sure you want to delete?
Complete the Splart masterpieces that Harhall requested of you.
The Marvelous Duo
There are three types of Gear: the kind that only Mario can wear, the stuff that's just for Luigi, and the goods that either can wear.
Deleting data...
Take the path that is only for those approved by the Winkles.
Time to Settle This!
Copy this file?
Head to where Queen Bean awaits in Beanbean Castle.
Press  when Luigi swings his Hammer over his head. Mario will become Mini Mario!
Press the  Button when you're fully charged! Try for an Excellent rating.
Showdown with Cackletta!
There is already data saved to File 2. Copy game data in File 1 and overwrite File 2?
It's a cold place on the other side of the sea... Make thorough preparations before you go.
When Luigi jumps, tap the  Button! This will spin Mini Mario around at high speed!
There are certain behaviors that can help you predict who an enemy will attack. Try to spot any and all tells!
Win & Dance
There is already data saved to File 1. Copy game data in File 2 and overwrite File 1?
Go and save Luigi!
When Mario throws a fireball, press the  Button quickly to make it grow.
Get many consecutive hits for an Excellent! You can attack enemies several times.
There are fixed buttons to control Mario and Luigi. Move Mario with the  Button, and move Luigi with the  Button.
You can also tap the Assist icon on the bottom screen to turn assist ON or OFF.
Hammer
To Challenge!
Overwritten data cannot be restored. Overwrite data?
Easy Mode
When the fire gets close to Luigi, hit it by pressing the  Button!
During the attack, you can change the foe you are targeting.
When it's Mario or Luigi's turn to act, select a Command Block to perform an action.
Turn assist ON to mark the character who is being targeted by an enemy's attack.
Change the Action Icon to Dash, and then hold and release the  Button to Fire Dash.
Jump! (Ground Theme)
Beans Held
Copying data...
Mario and Luigi ride mine carts down the mountain.
Empty
Press  when Mario and the fire are the same height! A larger flame may earn an Excellent!
When Mario starts to move forward, move the Circle Pad toward the foe you want to target.
Select a block by moving the Circle Pad right or left. Press the character's button to confirm.
If a red marker appears beneath Mario, that means he is the one being targeted.
This allows you to run at a fast speed and to bash into things with great force.
It's My Turn
Data deleted.
You've arrived in Beanbean Castle Town... But the town is under attack!
If you succeed, there's a chance you'll inflict the BURN status on your enemy.
In the Super version, an additional attack can be made at the end.
Battle and defeat all of the enemies to win. You can start by selecting the JUMP block to begin attacking.
If a green marker appears beneath Luigi, that means he is the one being targeted.
Press the  or  Button while dashing to stop.
Fawful and Cackletta
Mario and Luigi are dropped into the Beanbean Castle Sewers and asked to repair the plumbing.
The amiibo detected is not a Goomba, Koopa Troopa, or Boo amiibo.
This can be used to attack spiky enemies.
When Mario and Luigi stop spinning, press the  Button to prepare for the finisher.
If you're having trouble figuring out who an enemy is targeting, try turning assist ON.
This is Minion Turf!
The Lady Lima that you first met was an impostor!
There are currently no friends for this amiibo to share a stamp with.
When Mario climbs on top of Luigi, press →→ to the rhythm.
Press  when Luigi builds up his thunder.
Finish by pressing  when the Hammer is overhead! This can make enemies dizzy.
Change the Action Icon to Fire, and then press and hold the  Button to shoot a fireball.
You defeated Queen Bean, who was under Cackletta's control!
Finish by pressing the  Button! Press it when you jump on the enemy to get an Excellent!
Press  when Luigi gets on top of Mario to perform a big jump!
You defeated the Chuckolator! Now you can fix Queen Bean!
The Four Captains
Press  when Luigi is highest in his jump. Get an Excellent to deal heavy damage!
You've restored Queen Bean to her true form!
Touch an amiibo to the bottom screen to stamp.
Buzzy Beetle and Dry Bones
If you succeed, there's a chance you'll lower the enemy's DEF.
Mario and Luigi run into Prince Peasley for the first time in a long while.
Do not remove the amiibo from the bottom screen.
Hammer Bros.
Change the Action Icon to Hammer and use the  Button to make Mario swing his Hammer.
You defeated Cackletta!
Remove the amiibo.
Lakitu
Number Held
The Hammer can activate switches and has many other uses as well. Try using it in a variety of different spots.
Battles
The Beanstar flew off somewhere, along with Bowser...
You can receive bonuses in the Minion Quest amiibo menu.
Chargin' Chuck and Bob-omb
   What brings you here today? 
You have surpassed the maximum number of stamps and cannot receive any bonuses.
Piranha Plant and Pokey
Press  when Luigi and Mario hold hands! Keep holding the button to make them spin around.
Bowser's Road DX
This amiibo will be registered, and game data will be saved to it.
Chain Chomp and Broozer
They will keep spinning faster. The faster they spin, the more damage they will deal.
Change the Action Icon to Mini, and then press the  Button to swing the Mini Hammer. Hit Mario with it to make Mini Mario!
Cackletta, the Fiercest Foe DX
Update the data on your amiibo and place a stamp.
Magikoopa
When Mario and Luigi reach top speed, let go of the  Button!
While in his Mini Mario form, Mario is able to fit through small holes.
Once you've received a Stamp Sheet, you can touch a compatible amiibo to place a stamp.
A Journey Full of Laughs DX
Back
Do not remove the amiibo from the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer.
Use a friend's amiibo to place a stamp.
Koopalings 1
Press  when Luigi collides with a foe! Pull it off flawlessly to earn an Excellent rating!
Use the Mini Hammer again to return Mini Mario back to normal.
High Jump
This amiibo has not been registered. Register this amiibo in Minion Quest.
Koopalings 2
HAND
Change the Action Icon to Spin, and then press → to perform a Spin Jump.
Yours Boo-ly DX
You joined Bowser aboard the Koopa Cruiser, but there's still much preparation to do...
While spinning, slide the Circle Pad in any direction to move. You can stop moving at any time by releasing the Circle Pad.
A Feeling of Nostaluigi? DX
Mario and Luigi head to Stardust Fields.
The data on this amiibo is corrupted. Try registering the amiibo again in Minion Quest.
Owner
There are times when certain enemy attacks will cause status changes in battle.
You can stop spinning instantly by pressing either the  or  Button.
Simultaneous Jump
Mario is Everyone's Star DX
Go and gather the 100 coins that Tolstar is demanding.
Mario and Luigi have arrived on an island in pursuit of the Beanstar piece.
This is not the correct amiibo.
You can touch an amiibo to the NFC area to put ink on it...
Press the  Button when Mario swings his Hammer over his head.
When a status change takes effect, you may have your actions limited, or your HP may decrease.
JUMP
When the Bros. are on each other's shoulders, you can move them both using the Circle Pad.
Peach's Castle DX
Excellent Ratings
Head in the direction that Bowser was sent flying.
You've acquired the first Beanstar piece! Only three to go!
In order to place stamps, first recruit the necessary allies in Minion Quest.
Reading amiibo...
Press the  Button when Mario jumps on Luigi to pop up.
These effects will heal over time. You can recover from status effects faster by using a Refreshing Herb.
Mario and Luigi can move separately when Mini Mario enters small holes or when using Luigi Dunk to move beneath fences.
Change the Action Icon to Tickle, and then hold and release the  Button to use Thunder Tickle.
Stardust Fields Area 64 DX
The village seems to be in a hectic state... Try asking around to find out what happened.
You've acquired the second Beanstar piece! Only two to go!
If you quit now, the stamp will remain placed.
Stamp prepared!
Tap the  Button once Mario descends to the same height as the enemy!
Move using the Circle Pad.
Press the  Button when the two are separated to change which character you're controlling.
This enables you to use the Circle Pad to move Mario and Luigi at the same time without ever changing the direction they're facing.
A New Adventure Begins
Hoohoo Mountaintop DX
Can you break through the fallen rocks? Try asking the villagers.
You've acquired the third Beanstar piece! Now there's only one left!
Place stamp.
Super Thunder Bros.
Dunk Hammer
We're Off Again!
Enemies Defeated
Go to the peak of the mountain and gather the materials needed to make those Hammers.
You found a Beanstar piece in Yoshi Theater!
Stamp placed!
No items are equipped.
Touch of Evil
Get the two Hammer craftsmen to make you Hammers!
You found a Beanstar piece in Harhall's Studio!
Boo
You can check your stamps in the Records menu.
Prince Peasley's Theme
You can use them to break the rocks dropped by Fawful!
Mario and Luigi have been deemed worthy by the Winkles.
You can perform a Hammer Guard during an enemy attack when Mario and Luigi are holding out their Hammers.
Fawful Music
You acquired the last Beanstar piece! It's finally complete!
Press the  Button before Mario jumps on Luigi.
If you make contact with an enemy, a battle will start!
Keep their character buttons pressed down to make them hold their Hammers up.
Bowser's Road
Saving... Do not turn off the power.
Mario and Luigi take the Beanstar and head to Joke's End.
Press the  Button when Mario is directly over Luigi.
If you initiate an encounter by jumping on an enemy, they will receive damage at the start of battle.
When they are holding their Hammers above their heads, release the buttons to swing the Hammers down.
Cackletta, the Fiercest Foe
Thanks to Luigi, you secured the Beanstar and returned it to Princess Peach!
LV.  or higher
Super Mario Sheet
Press  when they smash into the enemy. Time button inputs well for an Excellent rating!
You can save your game at any time by tapping the Save icon on the bottom screen.
Change the Action Icon to Dunk, and then press  to swing the Dunk Hammer. Hit Luigi with it and voila! Luigi Dunk!
Press  after you land. If your timing is right, you will score an extra attack! Time all of your attacks well and aim for an Excellent rating.
A Journey Full of Laughs
Minions Sheet (1 of 2)
Super Swing Bros.
Basics #1: Command and Attack
If you get a game over, you can resume playing from your last save. Try to save often!
You can use Luigi Dunk to pass beneath fences.
Going Home
Hold the Corny Jokes, Please! DX
Minions Sheet (2 of 2)
