Quests Cleared
He's gonna run smack into these guys right away. And he's not that kind of fighter!
Battles Won
Enemies Defeated
More Tons
Excellent Ratings
Saving... Please do not turn off the power.
Minions Recruited
A new entry was added to your Formation Menu guide!
Oh, man...I haven't even gotten into formation bonuses yet...
Eh...Ludwig can tell you all about that. Just try different things!
Anyway, once you're all set, press to go back and start the battle.
Tap  to begin adjusting your formation.
So, you can deploy up to nine troopers at once, including yourself.
Oh, it looks like this squad is already full...
Well, let's swap in a Shy Guy for one of those Goombas.
Iggynition
Records
Change Type
Do you really wish to dismiss this trooper?
None of your changes will be saved. Continue?
Challenge complete!
Replay an event that you've already seen.
You can view challenge details in the Challenges section of the Records menu.
All right, it's up to you to manage your squad formations from here on out, Lord Junior.
It looks like we're up against melee troopers next, so I'd recommend adding flying troopers.
I'd say...three Boos should be enough.
Well...that's certainly enough from me. I'll leave you to it. Good luck, Lord Junior!
Ordering Rules
You don't have any more items in hand.
 learned ""!
A new quest has appeared in Bowser's Castle. Gather your units and give it a try!
Kamekiavellian
The Wigleader
OK, go ahead and tap  again to go back to the menu.
The number of allies you can recruit has increased from  to !
1.
's CP increased by !
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
All right, Ludwig said it's my turn. Are you paying attention?
I'm going to show you how to swap out squad members.
It looks like we'll be taking on some flying enemies.
So, you know, we should make sure our squad can handle them!
Item(s) acquired!
This is where you can swap troopers in and out of your squad.
So, like I said, since we'll be up against some flying troopers...
It'd make sense to add some ranged troopers of our own.
How about that Shy Guy? Move the cursor and press .
Details
Once you've placed the Shy Guy over one of the Goombas, all you have to do is press .
A new quest has appeared in Plack Beach. Level up and give it a try!
Boom! Now you've got a ranged unit to fight back against those Boos.
Now, if you want to put one of the troopers in your squad back on the bench...
Just select one, and then press .
Got all that? Try messing around with some different combos—all battles are different!
Why don't you try putting me in that spot?
You can now enhance your troopers! If you acquire beans or items in battle, try using them on a trooper that you want to improve.
Oh! I almost forgot!
See these charts? They show how your enemies will be lining up.
So, remember how we put that Shy Guy on the front line?
You can now change Bowser Jr. to a Ranged type in the Formation Menu!
So, select the Shy Guy using , and then move him to the back line.
You can now change Bowser Jr. to a Flying type in the Formation Menu!
Great! Now your formation is optimized for this battle.
Using the right units...in the right way...is super important.
So remember to check and see how your enemies are lining up...
And then set your units so they're at an advantage!
Select Bowser Jr. and press  to change his type.
 Melee Type No. 
Change Position
Larry Trigger
Hoo Roy
You should probably put ME into the formation!
Wendy Storm
 Flying Type No. 
Start by opening the Formation menu.
Closing Bowser Jr.'s Journey. Proceed?
Even though he ditched me, Ludwig may have had a point...
Something's not right around here!
So, I guess since I'm in charge, I should probably teach you about First Officers.
You can now remove allies from your party using the Dismiss option in the menu.
First, tap here to open the Formation menu.
( units)
Now, us Koopalings are your support.
See this empty slot? You can put a First Officer here.
???
 Ranged Type No. 
That's more like it! By the way, you can only assign one of us Koopalings as your First Officer.
 Hybrid Type No. 
Now, see this? That's a First Officer Skill.
It'll change depending on who you've set as your First Officer.
As much as I like being First Officer, you should try out the other Koopalings, too.
You might find that you could use a particular skill against a tricky enemy captain.
Oh! And there's just one more thing.
If you want to start all over from scratch, just tap  and   at the same time.
That'll clear your formation back to the default. All right, let's get moving!
Recruited new allies!
Your squad is full! Please choose a trooper to part ways with...
You can only befriend  s. You need to dismiss some troopers.
You can switch parties on the top screen using  and .
 learned !
You can also move your units around to make a new formation!
Your squad has fewer than nine units. Are you sure you want to proceed?
's CP increased by !
Start by pressing .
Dismiss all units except Bowser Jr.? 
No 
Yes
Lemmy Atom
 said good-bye and left behind a .
Gold
Close
Silver
Lord Junior! Take a look at this.
On the top screen here, you can review the units you're sending into battle.
Bronze
This is where you can see your Squad Level.
As your units grow stronger, this number will go up.
The number of parties you can save has increased from  to !
This is where you'll select a quest. But first...
You should look here to see how tough the enemies in a quest will be.
If your squad is at a higher level, you're in good shape.
Or, if you're feeling bold, you can try your luck at a lower level.
The right formation can go a long way!
For more information, you can also tap an enemy's profile here...
Or you can press  .
Either one will give you enemy and battle info.
...Did you catch any of that, Lord Junior?
...Moving on, then.
