Paper Toads are popping up everywhere! Find 'em all—even the sneaky ones.
Defeat all enemies and catch Nabbit.
Collect all of the mushrooms.
Rescue the Paper Toads before the Fly Guys make off with them.
Smash the giant cannon.
Move the blocks to solve the puzzle on the outside of Mount Brrr.
Answer 3 or more questions correctly.
Toad Scholar
Paper Toad Flurry
Paper Toads are in peril all over the mountain! Can you save them all?
Who's faster, you or Yoshi? Be the first to get to the goal!
Paper Toads have been spotted floating above the mountains in bubbles! You'll have to get creative to rescue them...
Chase and tackle the real Nabbit. Watch out for fakes!
The Hammer Bros. stole your Command Blocks. Defeat them to get your stuff back!
Rescue all the Paper Toads.
Rescue all the Toads.
Squeeze all the Paper Toads through the crack in the wall.
Answer all questions correctly.
Catch all the Paper Toads.
Final Smash
Paper Toads are stuck tight to the wall! Drill dash at them to rescue them.
Move the pink and blue blocks into the matching goal spots.
Rescue all the Paper Toads.
Wait Up, Yoshi!
Bowser's minions have kidnapped all the Paper Toads. Rescue them all!
Skyjinks with Nabbit
Rescue all Paper Toads before time runs out.
Hide-and-Sneak
Catch Nabbit!
Reach the goal before Yoshi. Hard Mode!
Retrieve the medallion.
Mystery of Mount Brrr
Catch all Paper Toads within the time limit.
Face off against Nabbit—and team up with him—in a wild chase through Neo Bowser Castle!
Answer all questions correctly.
Paper Toad Hide-and-Seek
Use your hammer to knock the cannonballs back at Morton. Try teaming up for the big ones...
Paper Toad Freeze-Out
Catch Nabbit!
Toad Trivia
Make your way to Bowser Jr. and Paper Bowser Jr. without being seen.
Stay safe until the timer runs out. Hard Mode!
Help the Toad recover all of the mushrooms he dropped!
Mushroom Foraging
Rescue all the Paper Toads without being hit once.
Toad Brain
A group of Paper Toads are on the run. Slide at them to catch them all!
Rescue all the Paper Toads. Hard Mode!
Nabbit Multiplication
Answer all questions correctly.
Catch both Bowser Jrs.
Yoshi Rush
You'll enter the rescue menu.
Bounce from cloud to cloud and catch up with Nabbit before he can escape again!
Defeat Iggy, Wendy, and Bowser.
Defeat Morton.
Catch all the Paper Toads.
A fiercely determined Boo won't stop chasing you!
Find and defeat the enemy who ran off with the medallion!
Bombs Away
Catch Nabbit!
Rescue all the Paper Toads, and deliver them safely to the Lakitu.
Square off with a know-it-all Toad to see who knows the most!
Yoshi is faster than he looks. Race him to the finish!
Mountain of Knowledge
Rescue the Paper Toads without being spotted by the nosy Fly Guys.
Rescue all the Paper Toads.
Kamek has blocked the way forward. Chase him off with Bomb Buds!
Retrieve everything that was taken from you.
Reach the goal before Yoshi.
Rescue all the Paper Toads without being hit once.
Rescue all the Paper Toads in the area.
Paper Toad Pursuit
Pop Quiz with Know-It-All Toad
いまのところ このエリアに ペーパーキノピオは いないようです。 
べつ
別
のエリアの
じょうほう
情報
も 
み
見
てください。
Save all the Paper Toads that are trapped on the sand flow. Be careful not to get hit by any bombs or blocks. 
Find all of the hidden Paper Toads.
Safe by a Sandslide
Answer 3 or more questions correctly.
Rescue all the Paper Toads from the Sandmaarghs!
Find all the Paper Toads before time runs out.
Chase and capture Nabbit while avoiding the spiked balls he throws.
Smash the giant cannon. Hard Mode!
Answer all questions correctly.
Lead all the Toads to the safe zone.
Back Atcha, Roy!
Fly Guy Patrol
Catch all the Paper Toads.
Catch Nabbit!
Catch all the Paper Toads. Hard Mode!
Move the pink and blue blocks into the matching goal spots. Hard Mode!
９０
びょういない
秒以内
に 
すべ
全
てのペーパーキノピオをつかまえる
Rescue all the Paper Toads. Hard Mode!
Rescue all the Paper Toads. Hard Mode!
Paper Toad Rescue
Outta the Way, Kamek!
Fight your way through Neo Bowser Castle, and smash the cannon before time runs out.
Rescue all the Paper Toads.
Paper Toad Shuffle
Hey! You guys are doing a great job with these quests.
Here's a little something for all your hard work. Keep it up!
Paper Toad Trail Trials
Hit Roy with 3 Bob-ombs. Hard Mode!
A super-smart Toad has appeared! Answer his questions to pass!
Rescue all Paper Toads within the time limit. Hard Mode!
Fly Guy Flyby
Tropical Paper Toad Hunt
Destroying the block tower in the snowy mountain
Rescue Toadette.
Save all the Paper Toads.
Save the Paper Toads that are hiding or captured by enemies!
The Paper Toads are trying to escape. Corral them into one spot!
Answer 3 or more questions correctly.
Another Toad with a batch of brain benders. Can you pass the test?
Bad Nabbit
Bubble Trouble
Find all the Paper Toads.
Rescue the Toads by carefully breaking the rocks, being careful not to squish the Toads!
A Toad trivia master challenges you with another quiz. Hope you pass the test!
The Toads are lost and panicking. Lead them to safety!
Rescue all the Paper Toads.
Jump at just the right time to rescue the Toads. And watch out for bombs!
Try again? 　　
Try again. 　　
Return to area before quest.
Paper Toads are running wild all around Twinsy Tropics. Catch 'em all!
Toadette in Trouble
Reach the goal before Yoshi.
Catch the Paper Toads before they hit the ground!
Hit Kamek 3 times with Bomb Buds.
Paper Toads are out hiding all over the village. Find them before they freeze!
Sky High Flyby
Defeat Iggy, Wendy, and Bowser. Hard Mode!
Try again? 
Try again. 
Return to area before quest. 
Skip and proceed with story.
Defeat Morton. Hard Mode!
Catch all the Paper Toads within the time limit.
Free the Paper Toads by smashing the stone blocks. Be careful not to squish the Paper Toads!
Rescue all the Paper Toads.
Catch all the Paper Toads.
Hammer, Bros.!
Answer 3 or more questions correctly.
Lost Toads Corral
Desert Rescue Party
Paper Toad Peel-Off
Paper Toad Tailgate
Hit Roy with 3 Bob-ombs.
Stay safe until the timer runs out.
Reach the goal before Yoshi. Hard Mode!
Rescue all the Toads. Hard Mode!
Rescue all Paper Toads within the time limit.
Stuff Retrieval
Toads rescued:
Rescue all the Paper Toads.
Skip this section and continue with the story? 
Yes
No
Rescue all the Paper Toads.
Answer all questions correctly.
Answer 3 or more questions correctly.
Paper Toad Patrol
Paper Toads are hiding all over the place. Find them all!
Use Trio Grab to toss bombs at Iggy, Wendy, and Bowser!
Bye-Bye, Boo
Paper Toad Sand Scramble
Rescue Toadette before the Fly Guy makes off with her!
Catch Nabbit. Hard Mode!
Rescue all of the Paper Toads.
Corral the Paper Toads!
Paper Toad Corral
Rescue all the Paper Toads. Hard Mode!
Hunt for the Medallion
The Stone Prison
Catch all the Paper Toads.
Roy's back for revenge. Snare some Bob-ombs and blast him out of your way!
Another Toad with brain-bending questions awaits! Good luck!
