Oh, and while I'm here... If you're having a hard time dodging attacks...
you can always press to use Emergency Block.
You won't avoid getting hit, but you will take less damage.
All right, good luck!
Whoa! That was amazing!
So much power packed into a tiny little box!
It looks like all three of you will need to work together to use that.
So if even one of you can't move...you're out of luck!
Remember, it uses BP— just like Bros. Attacks.
So always pay attention to how many you have left!
Trio Attack has been added to Paper Mario's Command Blocks!
Let's use that item you just got!
Select the Command Block for Trio Attack!
This is another one you might want to practice...
Aw, I'm just giving you a hard time.
If you want to get some Star Points, just do your regular thing.
You know...like stomping Goombas. Wait...what am I saying?
Anyway...you got that?
Give it a try right now, will ya?
Stomp those Hammer Bros., and get yourself some Star Points!
All right! The card is in play.
Oh yeah. You can have only 3 cards out at once.
So if there's one you don't like, just tap it and then select FLIP OVER.
That card will be flipped over without being used, and you'll have a free slot!
Confused? Just check the Battle Guide. It's always here.
All right, thanks for the help earlier. And good luck!
Ugh. I can't believe I just wished you good luck.
I'm losing it, guys!
Remember, the more Star Points you save up...
the more battle cards you can use.
Perfect! I can show you how to use battle cards right now...
So look down here.
This right here is your active battle card set.
Now watch—a new card will be dealt out on each turn.
I gave you a full set, but only one card has been dealt so far.
Now, you'll need Star Points to actually use the cards...
See the number written on the top of the card?
That's how many Star Points you need to use this card.
And here's how many you have so far.
A big, fat goose egg! Ha ha!
Why couldn't you have failed like that when you were attacking ME?!
To speed things up, I'm just gonna give you some points right now!
Ugh, just watching that gave me a headache.
Which means you're doing it right.
There! All full up!
Now go ahead and tap the battle card you want to use.
See that info? Now you know what this card does.
Looks like it raises your POW by 20%. Not fair!
Whatever. Go ahead and use the card now.
Anyway, a successful attack will fill up this meter a little bit.
And when the meter fills all the way, you'll get 1 Star Point.
When it looks like you're about to stop gliding, press !
To gain the most height, wait until the last possible second before pressing .
All right, good luck!
本シーンは 制作中です。 Lボタン＋Xボタンでバトルに勝利してください。
How ya like that? I messed up your battle cards!
Go ahead and cry about it. I'll wait!
Gah! I thought for sure that'd make you cry!
Morton used magic to block your character cards!
So it's just us now, huh? AHAHAHA!
Did he just...run away?
Lemmy! That was... CRAZY! Bahaha!
Now, you're probably wondering how I'm gonna follow that...
Lemmy! What are you doing? This is just getting started!
Bahaha! Looks like I win!
What did you do to Iggy and Lemmy? I must avenge them!
Guhuhuh... I knew I could beat ya!
Heehee!
Heehee! I won!
Mario! Luigi! Now's your chance!
Hit them with everything you've got while they're stunned!
Before you attack, look at the Touch Screen below.
If you want to put those copies to good use, watch the demo and then practice!
Copy has been added to Paper Mario's Command Blocks!
I've never seen anyone jump so high. And all you have to do is hold down ?
Say, this gives me an idea...
Try stomping on them!
Ooh, so close...
I have a feeling they're going to try that again...so give it another shot!
Big words, little Goomba. Almost as big as your eyebrows!
Get up, Mario! You can't lose to these guys!
Don't let these paperweights get you down!
Pow! That's how you do it! You're a natural!
That's some good stompin'. But keep practicing—you can do even better!
I mean, if you CAN stomp harder, you SHOULD stomp harder, right?
It's a little tricky, isn't it? Don't worry— you can practice as much as you want!
You know what? One of the Paper Toads gave me something that could come in handy here...
Here! It's a Copy Block!
Why don't you give it a try right now?
Hey! It's not that simple. But if you had let me finish explaining, you'd know that!
You'll have to spend a turn to make copies.
But check this out! When you have copies and you get attacked...
...the copies will take the damage for you!
Just remember that your copies aren't quite as strong as you are.
Every time you take damage, you'll lose at least one copy. Be careful!
From the looks of things, I'd say there are about six of you right now.
Sweet! You made copies of yourself!
Hey! You've gotta keep it together!
Wait just a minute!
Are you the Mario that Princess Peach was talking about?
Sorry. That's vague. Did you come flying out of a book recently?
Great! Luigi and, um, the other Mario need your help!
Oh, please.
The weakest one of us is still a million times stronger than them!
Wait...that was actually Mario?
Wow! What was that?!
Aw, man! The super stacking... uh...thing... That was OUR idea!
And you can just make copies of yourself anytime? Not fair!
It's gonna be painful if you lose. Bwahaha!
Winning distance: 
Tutorial: Trampoline Guard
Press  to bounce objects using Paper Mario.
Make sure you're directly beneath the cannonball!
You can move left and right using the Circle Pad.
Move to where the cannonball is going to land!
Nice! You're ready for the real thing.
Practice bouncing it back a few times.
When it looks like you're about to stop gliding, press !
To gain the most height, wait until the last possible second before pressing .
All right, good luck!
All right, who can fly the farthest?
I challenge you!
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Mega Thwonk Bros. Attack.
Deal 100 or more damage to 1 enemy with a single attack.
メドレーでＳランク！
Unpacking a Punch
Go Nuts
Remove the amiibo from the NFC reader/writer.
Load character card set.
Demo and Practice
Get an S Rating with Chargin' Chuck Corps in the Battle Ring.
Deal 250 or more damage to 1 enemy at LV 20 or higher with a single attack.
Make 20 Paper Mario copies.
Use Trio Attacks 3 times.
Defeat 2 Goombas and 2 Paper Goombas.
King Boo S Rating
A Handy Tip
Character card set has been loaded!
 was destroyed!
Dodge 5 Paper Boomerang Bro attacks in a row.
Deal 500 or more damage to 1 enemy at LV 30 or higher with a single attack.
Make 100 Paper Mario copies.
Use Trio Attacks 50 times.
Trio Racquet A Rating
The Eyes Have It
Loading character card set.
Shy Guy
Paper Boomerang Bro
Use a Bros. Attack to make Mario and Luigi attack together! 
Make 200 Paper Mario copies.
Use Trio Attacks 100 times.
Look Out Below!
Paper Spike
Bros. Attacks
Complete a Bros. Attack to deal a lot of damage!
Get an S Rating on Cannonball Chuck in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Megacrinkle Goomba in the Battle Ring.
Paper Swoop Dodge
Paper Petey Piranha
You'll now take % less damage when you use Emergency Block.
Paper Swoop
Each Bros. Attack consumes BP. Use items like Syrup Jars to recover BP.
Trio Attacks
Use battle cards 10 times.
Paper Fire Bro Dodge
Big Pokey Duo
Beginner Bros.
Just Getting Started
No character cards found. To create one, select MAKE A CARD from the in-game amiibo menu.
Monty Mole
Ninji
Paper Mario's Copy Ability
Use battle cards 50 times.
Goomba Dodge
Modest Bros.
Excellent 3D Red Shell
This Lucky Attack is...
Bowser Jr.
Get an S Rating with Kamek Duo in the Battle Ring.
Use battle cards 150 times.
Start 15 battles with an advantage by stomping, hammering, or dashing into enemies.
Trio Whirligig A Rating
Mega Thwonk A Rating
Buzzy Beetle Dodge
Hardworking Bros.
Excellent Fire Flower
!
ボタンウェイトなしの ダミーメッセージ（）
Bowser
Dodge 5 Paper Ninji attacks in a row.
Start 100 battles with an advantage by stomping, hammering, or dashing into enemies.
Megacrinkle Goomba S Rating
Excellent Rocket Blast
Excellent Hammer
Confirm
End the battle? 
No
Yes
Paper Bowser Jr.
Move the airplane above Mario's or Luigi's head by sliding the Circle Pad to the left or right.
Dodge 5 Fire Piranha Plant attacks in a row.
Start 200 battles with an advantage by stomping, hammering, or dashing into enemies.
Excellent Drill Shell
Coin Enthusiast
イージーモードを発動しますか？
Lemmy
Once the airplane is hovering over Mario or Luigi, jump with  or  and hold down the button to hang on.
Dodge 5 Paper Scaredy Rat attacks in a row.
Paper Spike Dodge
Excellent Bomb Derby
Coin Collector
Sorry—this amiibo is already registered on a different Nintendo 3DS system. To use it on this system, you must first delete its current character card set.
Use the battle cards on the lower screen by tapping on them twice. Tap the card once to see its effect, and then tap it again to use it!
Using cards consumes Star Points. Earn Star Points by successfully timing your button presses when you attack.
Use all items in the game at least once.
Dodge 5 Broozer attacks in a row.
Defeat 3 or more enemies with a single attack.
Airplane Challenge
Excellent Dropchopper
Coin King
Don't Let Petey Eat
Remove the amiibo from the NFC reader/writer to stop the roulette.
Ludwig
In Easy Mode, your characters will be stronger than usual and enemies will be weaker than usual.
Get an A Rating on Trio Shuriken in Attackathon.
Dodge 5 Paper Broozer attacks in a row.
Clear King Bob-omb in the Battle Ring.
Clear Rampaging Wiggler in the Battle Ring.
Defeat 10 or more enemies with a single attack.
Excellent Cannonball Chuck
Beating Bob-ombs
Give Petey Piranha a Pass
Paper Paratroopa
You can also use Easy Attack Mode and the Hint Block while playing in Easy Mode. See the guide for more information on those features.
Dodge 5 Paper Hammer Bro attacks in a row.
Defeat 15 or more enemies with a single attack.
With max copies, get an Excellent with Paper Mario's Hammer attack.
Paper Spear Guy Dodge
Excellent Balloon Blast
Practice Makes Perfect
Sorry—this amiibo is not supported.
That doesn't seem to be a compatible amiibo. Please remove it from the Touch Screen.
You can turn on Easy Mode by selecting the wrench icon in the menu. You'll also be given the option to turn it on after losing a battle.
Dodge 5 Paper Paratroopa attacks in a row.
Excellent Toad Trail
How to Stop a Spiny
Wireless is turned off. Please enable wireless to use amiibo functionality.
Battle Cards
Dodge 5 Biddybud attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Paper Fire Bro attacks in a row.
Item Buffet
Sandmaargh Dodge
Paper Sombrero Guy Dodge
Excellent Mega Thwonk
Excellent Paper Jump
Learning Ludwig and Larry
An error occurred while writing or reading amiibo data. Please try again.
When Mario and crew crouch during an enemy's attack, that means they can do a Jump Guard.
How to Use Battle Cards
Shell Game
Sorry—this amiibo already contains data from another game. If you want to use this amiibo, please delete the previous data using amiibo Settings.
Paper Broozer
Jump by pressing the appropriate character's button.
King Boo
Excellent Paper Hammer
したがめん
下画面
にイージーモードボタンが
しゅつげん
出現
しました！ このボタンを
お
押
せば ３
にん
人
が
つよ
強
くなり モンスターを
たお
倒
しやすくなります どうしてもバトルに
か
勝
てないときに
お
押
してください
Drop the Bomb
You haven't set up a character card set for this amiibo yet. Please create a character card set using the Register amiibo menu before continuing.
Jump to avoid attacks, and deal damage by landing on enemies.
??????
Ludwig and Larry Endgame
Sorry—amiibo data has been corrupted. Attempt to restore amiibo data? 
Yes
No
Paper Mario can fly high if you hold down  after jumping.
Battle Card Sets
When you win a battle, all of your characters will earn EXP. When a character has earned enough EXP, his level will go up.
Dodge 5 Paper Paragoomba attacks in a row.
Boomerang Challenge
The Hole Story on Monty Mole
Powering Down Paper Sombrero Guys
Sorry—the amiibo data is corrupted. If you have previously registered this amiibo on this system, you may be able to restore the data.
You can also reformat the amiibo data by selecting amiibo Settings within HOME Menu Settings. Please remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
Larry
Mechakoopa
Avoid Attacks with Copies
In Easy Mode, your characters will be stronger than usual and enemies will be weaker than usual.
As your characters level up, they'll gain more HP and their attacks will deal more damage to enemies.
Clear Boss Medley in the Battle Ring.
Trio Racquet S Rating
Kamek Duo
Monty Mole's Gold
An error occurred while writing or reading amiibo data. Please try again.
You can now use a Trio Attack once without spending any BP!
Hammer Bro
Wendy
Jump Attacks
You can also use Easy Attack Mode and the Hint Block while playing in Easy Mode. See the guide for more information on those features.
If you're having a hard time with a strong enemy, try battling some weaker enemies first to level up your characters.
Dodge 5 Boomerang Bro attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Monty Mole attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Goomba attacks in a row.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Bowser Jr. in the Battle Ring.
Luigi
Please turn on the NFC reader/writer and point it toward the infrared transceiver on your Nintendo 3DS system.
Sorry—you haven't set up a character card set for this amiibo yet. You can create a character card set by selecting REGISTER amiibo from the in-game amiibo menu.
The card's effects have ended. Turn order will return to normal.
Hammer Attacks
You can turn on Easy Mode by selecting the wrench icon in the menu. You'll also be given the option to turn it on after losing a battle.
Achieved
Dodge 5 Spike attacks in a row.
Finish a single battle using only Hammer attacks that are Excellent.
Shy Guy Dodge
Bowser Jr. Duo
???
Quit
Fire Bro
Easy Mode
You can't complete Expert Challenges while playing in Easy Mode. So, once you get the hang of things, try turning Easy Mode off.
Level the Playing Field
Biddybud
Paper Paragoomba
Hint Block
Fly Guy Dodge
ダミー
せんたく
選択
メッセージ（） 
いいえ　　
はい
Avoid all enemy attacks during an Airplane Guard.
Trio Whirligig S Rating
Mega Thwonk S Rating
Fire Piranha Plant Dodge
Papercraft Bowser Jr. S Rating
Kamek's Dirty Tricks
If you take damage from an enemy's attack, your character's HP will decrease. If it reaches 0, your character will faint.
Dodge 5 Big Tail Goomba attacks in a row.
Get an S Rating on Boss Medley in the Battle Ring.
Simple Symbols
Bowser
Choose Jump to deal damage to an enemy by stomping on it.
If Mario and Luigi both reach 0 HP, the game will end.
Dodge 5 Koopa Troopa attacks in a row.
Broozer Dodge
Paper Fuzzy Dodge
Expert 3D Red Shell
This Means Warp
Defeat enemies by dealing damage to them until their HP reaches 0.
Not to worry! You can restart the battle from the beginning or restore from your last save point. Be careful out there!
Toad Trail A Rating
Paper Broozer Dodge
Expert Fire Flower
Hitting the Wall
If your HP is getting low or one of your characters faints, select the Item Block and use an item to help him recover.
Get 30 Lucky Hits.
Expert Rocket Blast
Punishing Paper Petey Piranha
An error occurred while writing the amiibo data. Please try again.
Your amiibo data may have been corrupted.
It will now be easier to get a Lucky Hit!
Goomba
Mushrooms can restore a character's HP.
Get an S Rating on Trio Shuriken in Attackathon.
Get 70 Lucky Hits.
Expert Drill Shell
Don't You Wanna Dodge That Piranha?
That doesn't seem to be a compatible amiibo. Please remove it from the NFC area.
Paper Goomba
1-Up Mushrooms can revive a character who has fainted.
Get 150 Lucky Hits.
Petey Piranha S Rating
Expert Bomb Derby
You can buy items from a shop or earn them by defeating enemies. Make sure you have enough before you head into battle!
Expert Challenges
The order in which your characters and enemies attack depends on their relative stats—particularly SPEED.
Expert Dropchopper
Beginner Trio
Easy Mode
Please tap the amiibo on the NFC area to attempt to restore data, or press  to quit.
Morton
Attack enemies by jumping on them, hammering them, or using a Bros. Attack or Trio Attack. An enemy is defeated when its HP reaches 0.
Don't like the way a battle is going? Select the Flee Block to escape. But use it sparingly—you won't earn any coins or experience by fleeing.
Trampoline Guard
The higher a character's SPEED, the more often he will be able to act.
Avoid an enemy attack during a Boomerang Guard.
Get an Excellent with the Trio Racquet Trio Attack.
Expert Cannonball Chuck
Modest Trio
Picking Apart Pokey
That is not the correct amiibo. Please remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
Select a character card, and press .
When you get a new battle card, you can view it by selecting the BATTLE CARDS option from the menu.
Deal more damage when attacking by accurately controlling the Circle Pad and the timing of your button presses.
Turn Order
Clear Kamek Duo in the Battle Ring.
Get an S Rating with Bowser Jr. Duo in the Battle Ring.
Get an Excellent with the Trio Kite Trio Attack.
Expert Balloon Blast
Hardworking Trio
Flying Lessons
ボタンウェイトありの ダミーメッセージ（）
To use a new card in battle, add it to one of your battle card sets.
The button you press depends on the attack. Be sure to check the explanation on the Touch Screen after choosing an attack.
Easy Attack Mode
Get an Excellent with the Trio Whirligig Trio Attack.
Paper Paragoomba Dodge
Expert Toad Trail
Ninji Know-How
Barrel o' Fun
If you activate Easy Mode, party members will get stronger and enemies will be easier to defeat. You can turn this mode off in the menu settings. Expert Challenges will be unavailable in Easy Mode.
Your attacks are rated on 4 levels. The highest rating is Excellent, so aim for that!
Use character cards 10 times.
Defeat all enemies in 1 move as Luigi.
Get an Excellent with the Trio Shuriken Trio Attack.
Big Pokey Duo S Rating
Petey Piranha
Expert Mega Thwonk
Return to character card set loading by pressing .
Sorry—you can't use character cards in this battle!
Pokey
Clear Chargin' Chuck Corps in the Battle Ring.
Use character cards 25 times.
Defeat all enemies in 1 move as Mario.
Get an Excellent with the Trio Meteor Trio Attack.
King Bob-omb S Rating
Shiny Enemy Hunter
You don't have enough Star Points. Land some successful attacks to earn more Star Points!
Sandmaargh
Dodge 5 Paper Bob-omb attacks in a row.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Bowser in the Battle Ring.
Use character cards 100 times.
Spiny Dodge
Shiny Enemy Destroyer
Fearless Warrior
Expert Challenges are special achievements that you complete by battling. Each one earns you points that you can spend on gear!
Shiny Enemy Obliterator
Iggy
Paper Tower Power Pokey
Everyone in your party has his own button for battle actions. You can control Mario with , Luigi with , and Paper Mario with .
View Expert Challenges by tapping the medal icon during battle or by opening the menu and selecting GUIDE.
Defeat all enemies in 1 move as Paper Mario.
Defeat a boss without using any wear.
Hammer Bro Dodge
Trampoline Challenge
Excellent Jump
Sorry—you've already used a character card of that character. You'll need to win a battle before you can use a character card of that character again.
Once it's your turn, choose a Command Block and take action.
A good strategy is to start on the Expert Challenges you think you can complete.
A new chapter has been added to the Battle Guide.
Defeat Papercraft Megacrinkle Goomba in the Battle Ring.
Defeat 8 or more enemies at once with a single battle card.
Chargin' Chucks Corps
Fire Beats Paper
You can improve your rank by leveling up. And each time you reach a new rank, you'll receive a Rank-Up Bonus!
Rank-Up Bonuses make your characters stronger, but there's a limit to how many you can earn. Choose wisely!
Tap an amiibo on the Touch Screen.
Just before an enemy attacks, your characters will crouch in readiness if you can do a Jump Guard.
Slide the Circle Pad left or right to scroll through Command Blocks, and then press the active character's button to make your choice.
Take a look at it anytime by tapping the Battle Guide icon on the lower screen!
Defeat Papercraft Kamek in the Battle Ring.
Fire Bro Dodge 
Papercraft Bowser S Rating
A Cheap Trick for Beating Cheep Cheeps
Congratulations on reaching max rank! Select your Rank-Up Bonus!
Paper Mario
Tap an amiibo on the NFC reader/writer.
Paper Bob-omb
Press a character's button to make him jump. Time it right, and you can avoid taking damage.
Win battles by defeating all on-screen enemies. First, try attacking an enemy by choosing the Jump Block.
Defeat Papercraft Bowser Jr. in the Battle Ring.
Buzzy Beetle Bullet Points
Congratulations on reaching max rank! Select your Rank-Up Bonus!
Big Tail Goomba
You can even deal damage to some enemies by landing on them. Timing is everything.
Get an A Rating on Trio Racquet in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating with King Boo in the Battle Ring.
Defeat Papercraft King Boo in the Battle Ring.
このバトルに
かぎ
限
って マリオ ルイージ ペーパーマリオが
つよ
強
くなり モンスターを
たお
倒
しやすくなります。 （ペナルティは
とく
特
にありません）
Koopa Troopa
Paper Dry Bones
Defeat Papercraft Bowser in the Battle Ring.
Cannonball Chuck A Rating
Paper Paratroopa Dodge
ドデカクラフトバトルの 「ドデカクラフトメドレー」を クリアしよう
Toad Trail S Rating
Status effects have worn off.
Paper Shy Guy
Paper Koopa Troopa
Paper Boo
Defeat Big Pokey Duo in the Battle Ring.
Pouncing on Paper Kamek
Rescue Paper Mario!
Is this OK?
Each battle card has a special effect that can prove helpful in battle.
Dodge 5 Paper Koopa Troopa attacks in a row.
Use 10 battle cards with different effects in a single battle.
Countering Paper Kamek
A Royal Pain
Confirm
To use a battle card, you need Star Points, which you gain by pulling off successful attacks.
Get an A Rating on Trio Whirligig in Attackathon.
Get an A Rating on Mega Thwonk in Attackathon.
Dodge 5 Buzzy Beetle attacks in a row.
Excellent Bros.
Dethroning King Boo
All
Shiny RoboBowser
Use a Trio Attack to turn enemies to paper and then attack them with all of your characters!
You can use a battle card once you collect the number of Star Points written on that card.
Get an S Rating with Big Pokey Duo in the Battle Ring.
Clear Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Ninji Dodge
Paper Goomba Dodge
Complete a Trio Attack to deal a lot of damage!
To earn Star Points more quickly, get the best ratings possible on solo attacks. Use Bros. and Trio Attacks for even more Star Points.
Clear Paper Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Defeat 3 shiny enemies.
Paper Dry Bones Dodge
Retry battle from the beginning?
Paper Bowser
Each Trio Attack consumes BP. Use items like Syrup Jars to recover BP.
Collect a total of 2,000 coins.
Defeat 50 shiny enemies.
Monty Mole Dodge
Paper Petey Piranha S Rating
Dodge 5 Spiny attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Paper Spike attacks in a row.
Get an Excellent with the 3D Red Shell Bros. Attack.
Collect a total of 12,000 coins.
Defeat 100 shiny enemies.
Paper Shy Guy Dodge
Rampaging Wiggler S Rating
Chargin' Chuck
Get an Excellent with the Fire Flower Bros. Attack.
Collect a total of 30,000 coins.
Paper Bob-omb Dodge
Horned Ant Trooper
Get an Excellent with the Rocket Blast Bros. Attack.
Excellent Trio
You can't use any more amiibo in this battle.
To begin, move the target using the Circle Pad.
Get an Excellent with the Drill Shell Bros. Attack.
Pokey Dodge
Retry.
Mario
Paper Kamek
Targeted Character
Press either Mario's or Luigi's button to throw the boomerang at your target.
Get an Excellent with the Bomb Derby Bros. Attack.
Big Tail Goomba Dodge
Mechakoopa Dodge
Hammer Bros. Breakdown
Return to title screen without saving.
Jump Guard
Sometimes you need to aim for an enemy, and other times you need to aim for an object. Calmly move your target and fire away!
Get an Excellent with the Dropchopper Bros. Attack.
Koopa Troopa Dodge
A Painful Blow
Retry in Easy Mode.
No owner has been registered for this amiibo. To create a character card set, first register an owner for your amiibo.
Chain Chomp
Hammer Guard
Get an Excellent with the Cannonball Chuck Bros. Attack.
Defeat 20 enemies with counterattacks.
Defeat 10 paper enemies with fire.
With max copies, get an Excellent with Paper Mario's Jump attack.
A More Painful Blow
You can now use a Bros. Attack once without spending any BP!
Boomerang Bro
Bully
Paper Chain Chomp
Airplane Guard
Get an Excellent with the Balloon Blast Bros. Attack.
Defeat 200 enemies with counterattacks.
Defeat 50 paper enemies with fire.
Paper Boomerang Bro Dodge
Chargin' Chucks Corps S Rating
An Even More Painful Blow
Spike
Boomerang Guard
Dodge 5 Cheep Cheep attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Paper Spear Guy attacks in a row.
Get an Excellent with the Toad Trail Bros. Attack.
Defeat 400 enemies with counterattacks.
Defeat 120 paper enemies with fire.
Beginner Sidestepper
Expert Trio Racquet
Fire Piranha Plant
Spiny
Get an S Rating on Trio Racquet in Attackathon.
Get an Excellent with the Mega Thwonk Bros. Attack.
Advanced Sidestepper
Expert Trio Kite
Routing Roy and Wendy
Put a Hurtin' on Urchins
Paper Spiny
Wielding hammers during an enemy's attack is a sign that your party can do a Hammer Guard.
After all Bros. Attacks have been unlocked, get an Excellent with each at least once.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Kamek in the Battle Ring.
Cannonball Chuck S Rating
Card Beginner
Master Sidestepper
Expert Trio Whirligig
Stuck on Chargin' Chucks?
Running from Roy and Wendy
Buzzy Beetle
You can practice a selected attack or view a demo by tapping the appropriate button on the lower screen.
Ready a character's hammer by pressing and holding the corresponding button.
Clear Bowser Jr. Duo in the Battle Ring.
Clear King Boo in the Battle Ring.
Card Veteran
Flicker
Expert Trio Shuriken
Malfunctioning Mechakoopas
Roy and Wendy Endgame
King Bob-omb
Paper Hammer Bro
Watching the demo will help you learn how to time your actions during the attack.
When the enemy closes in, release the button to swing the hammer forward.
Jump Guard
Dodge 5 Ninji attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Shy Guy attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Paper Goomba attacks in a row.
Kamek Duo S Rating
Card Master
Blaze
Expert Trio Meteor
Flutter Stomp
 LV 
Increase the power of your attacks by successfully timing your button presses.
The buttons to press are shown on the Touch Screen, so check that before attacking.
In Practice mode, you can try out the attack for yourself. Hone your skills before facing off against real enemies!
Paper Mario's copies will all take a swing when you use his hammer.
Emergency Block
You can check up on the status of any of your characters via the menu.
Defeat a boss without using any items.
Paper Boo Dodge
Stargazer
Wildfire
Remove the amiibo from the Touch Screen to stop the roulette.
Paper Mario can create copies of himself using the Copy Block.
Copies increase the number of times you can attack, and they even take damage for you.
Use the Copy Block well to help you out in battle!
Control Paper Mario with .
Paper Fire Bro
The Hint Block will appear while battling in Easy Mode or if your party is defeated and needs to restart a battle.
There are 6 areas to watch: HP, BP, POW, DEF, SPEED, and STACHE.
Get an S Rating on Trio Whirligig in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating on Mega Thwonk in Attackathon.
Dodge 5 attacks in a row from either Chain Chomps or Paper Chain Chomps or both.
Papercraft Kamek S Rating
Character Card Beginner
Super Luigi!
Hold down  to make Paper Mario flutter in the air for a short time.
Shy Guy
The Hint Block will give you hints about how to battle or the quirks of a particular enemy.
HP is your health. Your characters lose HP when enemies land attacks, and if it reaches 0, they will faint.
Biddybud Dodge
Dodge Apprentice
Character Card Veteran
Super Mario!
You won't lose a turn when you use the Hint Block, so read as many hints as you like!
BP stands for Bros. Points. You spend Bros. Points every time you use a Bros. Attack or a Trio Attack.
After all Trio Attacks have been unlocked, get an Excellent with each at least once.
Dodge Enthusiast
Character Card Master
Leave Shell Enough Alone
If you have any questions, tap the Battle Guide icon on the lower screen.
A red outline indicates the target of an enemy's attack.
POW is your attack power. The higher the number, the more damage you can deal.
Get an A Rating on Toad Trail in Attackathon.
Dodge 5 Horned Ant Trooper attacks in a row.
Trio Shuriken A Rating
Dodge Master
Fire Bros. Extinguisher
Beating Bowser's Fire Breath
A dotted white line indicates a character who may or may not be attacked.
DEF is your defensive power. The higher the number, the less damage you'll take.
Paper Hammer Bro Dodge
King Bob-omb
Rampaging Wiggler
Super Paper Mario!
Ticking King Bob-omb
Bark and Bite
You need to update your NFC reader/writer to proceed. 
Quit
Update
Charge a hammer by holding down the button. Swing the hammer by releasing the button.
Big Pokey
When you see a dotted white line, watch the enemy's movement to see who the real target is.
SPEED is how fast you can act. The higher the number, the more attacks and actions you can perform in a battle.
Dodge 5 Mechakoopa attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Fly Guy attacks in a row.
King Bob-omb-ology
The amiibo data is being restored. Do not remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
There's always a telltale sign in the enemy's actions before it attacks.
When you win a battle, all of your characters will earn EXP. When a character has earned enough EXP, his level will go up.
STACHE measures how luxuriant and robust your mustache is. Higher numbers mean more Lucky Hits and more items from enemies.
Bully Dodge
Do It Yourself
Sorry—recovery of the amiibo data has failed.
If you need a little help, turn Assist on. That way, you can always see which of your characters will be attacked next.
Choose Hammer to deal damage to an enemy by smashing it.
Easy Attack Mode
As your characters level up, they'll gain more HP and their attacks will deal more damage to enemies.
Dodge 5 Paper Swoop attacks in a row.
Get an S Rating with Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Papercraft Megacrinkle Goomba
Fuzzy Logic
The amiibo data has been restored successfully.
Paper Ninji
Turn Assist on or off by pressing START when it's your turn to select a Command Block.
Use the hammer to attack enemies that you can't stomp, like ones with spikes.
Battle Basics ①: Command Blocks
If you're having a hard time with a strong enemy, try battling some weaker enemies first to level up your characters.
Dodge 5 Bully attacks in a row.
Use Bros. Attacks 3 times.
Papercraft Kamek
Communication with the NFC reader/writer failed. Please turn the NFC reader/writer off and try again.
Paper Petey Piranha
Battle Basics ①: Command Blocks
After leveling up a few times, you'll eventually rank up and earn the chance to select a Rank- Up Bonus.
Use Bros. Attacks 50 times.
Win 10 battles, avoiding enemy attacks with Assist turned off.
Papercraft Bowser Jr.
Update of the NFC reader/writer failed.
Paper Scaredy Rat
Battle Basics ②: Dealing Damage
Choose wisely—you'll receive only a limited number of Rank-Up Bonuses throughout the course of the game.
Use Bros. Attacks 150 times.
Win 100 battles, avoiding enemy attacks with Assist turned off.
Papercraft King Boo
Getting around Goombas
A communications error has occurred. Please turn your system off and try again.
If this doesn't resolve the issue, please contact Nintendo Customer Service, listed in your system's operations manual.
You'll now recover HP if you take damage!
Battle Basics ③: Watch Your HP!
Dodge 5 Paper Fire Piranha Plant attacks in a row.
Win 200 battles, avoiding enemy attacks with Assist turned off.
Papercraft Bowser
Cardsharp
Bombs Away
Dust to...Paper?
Communication with the NFC reader/writer failed.
Please turn the NFC reader/writer off and try again.
If this doesn't resolve the issue, please contact Nintendo Customer Service, listed in your system's operations manual.
Cheep Cheep
Battle Basics ③: Watch Your HP!
You can enable Easy Attack Mode to make Bros. Attacks easier to pull off.
Get an S Rating with King Bob-omb in the Battle Ring.
Boomerang Bro Dodge
Paper Koopa Troopa Dodge
Boss Medley
メドレーをクリア！
Wild Card
Battle Card Basics
The Right Way to Counter Paper Dry Bones
Sorry—that amiibo isn't supported in this game.
If you take damage from an enemy's attack, your character's HP will decrease. If it reaches 0, your character will faint.
Battle Basics ④: Getting Stronger
Easy Attack Mode slows down attacks and makes them less difficult to complete in exchange for costing a little more BP.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft King Boo in the Battle Ring.
Earn 7 Star Points in a single battle.
Win 50 battles in a row without fleeing.
Spike Dodge 
Boss Medley S Rating
Sorry—the amiibo data is corrupted.
Dry Bowser
If Paper Mario has any copies, he loses them instead of HP when attacked.
If Mario, Luigi, and Paper Mario all reach 0 HP, the game will end.
Battle Basics ④: Getting Stronger
You'll still deal full damage, however, so give it a try if there's an attack you're not totally familiar with yet.
Dodge 5 Paper Boo attacks in a row.
Not to worry! You can restart the battle from the beginning or restore from your last save point. Be careful out there!
Battle Basics ⑤: Status
To enable Easy Attack Mode, press  when selecting an attack.
Finish a single battle using only Jump attacks that are Excellent.
Paper Spiny Dodge
Sidestepping Sandmaargh
Paper Fire Piranha Plant
If your HP is getting low or one of your characters faints, select the Item Block and use an item to help him recover.
Easy Mode
Dodge 5 Hammer Bro attacks in a row.
Dodge enemy attacks 20 times.
Double Chain Chomp Dodge
Lucky Star
Take the Argh out of Sandmaargh
This card doesn't have any effect right now.
Paper Sombrero Guy
Mushrooms can restore a character's HP.
Dodge enemy attacks 100 times.
Papercraft King Boo S Rating
Lucky Superstar
No Mo' Bros.!
Register amiibo and create a character card set? 
No
Yes
1-Up Mushrooms can revive a character who has fainted.
Dodge 5 Fire Bro attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Sombrero Guy attacks in a row.
Dodge enemy attacks 200 times.
Lucky Megastar
START: Skip Battle Tutorial
Roy
You can buy items from a shop or earn them by defeating enemies. Make sure you have enough before you head into battle!
Move left and right using the Circle Pad, and try to anticipate where the cannonball will land. Press  to bounce it when it lands.
Horned Ant Trooper Dodge
Control Mario with . Control Luigi with .
Each character has his own button to get the action started. Press  for Mario and  for Luigi.
Don't like the way a battle is going? Select the Flee Block to escape. But use it sparingly—you won't earn any coins or experience by fleeing.
If you can keep the cannonball bouncing, it will eventually bounce back onto your enemies and deal damage to them.
Get an A Rating on Cannonball Chuck in Attackathon.
Avoid an enemy attack during a Trampoline Guard.
Excellent Trio Racquet
Petey Piranha
Nabbit
When it's one of your characters' turns, select a Command Block and then press that character's button to take action.
Get an S Rating on Toad Trail in Attackathon.
Trio Shuriken S Rating
Copy x 20
Excellent Trio Kite
Toppling Big Pokey
Kamek
Paper Fuzzy
You can hold down  while a character's being attacked to reduce the amount of damage he takes.
You can scroll through the Command Blocks by sliding left or right on the Circle Pad.
Progress:
Copy x 100
Excellent Trio Whirligig
It's always better to dodge an enemy's attack completely, so use Emergency Block as a last resort.
To win the battle, you must defeat all of the enemies on the screen. First, try attacking using the Jump Block.
Counterattack Apprentice
Copy x 200
Excellent Trio Shuriken
Wiggler
If you're having a hard time dodging an attack, that's when Emergency Block comes in handy.
Counterattack Enthusiast
Excellent Trio Meteor
Don't Lose to Broozer
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the 3D Red Shell Bros. Attack.
Cheep Cheep Dodge
Counterattack Master
Urchin
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Fire Flower Bros. Attack.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Trio Racquet Trio Attack.
Bowser Jr. Duo S Rating
Fresh Start
King Boo
If you need a little help pulling off Bros. Attacks or Trio Attacks, try Easy Attack Mode.
Dodge 5 Paper Dry Bones attacks in a row.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Rocket Blast Bros. Attack.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Trio Kite Trio Attack.
Paper Fire Piranha Plant Dodge
Paper Ninji Dodge
Head Start
Paper Spear Guy
Select the card you want to use by tapping on it. Tap the card again to use it.
You'll use more BP, but the attacks will be slowed down and easier to complete.
Points:
Get an S Rating with Rampaging Wiggler in the Battle Ring.
Get an S Rating with Paper Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Drill Shell Bros. Attack.
Use 10 battle cards in a single battle.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Trio Whirligig Trio Attack.
Flying Start
Sorry—the amiibo data is corrupted. If you've used this amiibo before on your system, you can restore the data. Otherwise, reset the amiibo data in amiibo Settings.
You're currently in Easy Mode, so you can't complete Expert Challenges.
If you want to complete Expert Challenges, select the wrench from the menu and turn off Easy Mode.
Watch out! The effects have been reversed!
You'll spend the number of Star Points written on the battle card when you use it.
You'll still deal just as much damage, so don't hesitate to use this mode when you're having a hard time completing a specific attack.
Dodge 5 Paper Shy Guy attacks in a row.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Bomb Derby Bros. Attack.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Trio Shuriken Trio Attack.
Paper Scaredy Rat Dodge
Broozer
Paper Mario can make copies of himself to amplify his solo attacks.
Once you use a battle card, it will be discarded.
To use Easy Attack Mode, first enable Easy Mode from the menu. Then press  before you select an attack.
Dodge 5 Paper Spiny attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Paper Fuzzy attacks in a row.
ドデカクラフトバトルの 「ドデカクラフトメドレー」でSランクを
と
取
ろう
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Dropchopper Bros. Attack.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Trio Meteor Trio Attack.
3 Birds with 1 Stone
You'll now earn % more Star Points!
The more copies, the more damage!
Once all of your cards have been discarded, they'll be reshuffled and available to use again.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Cannonball Chuck Bros. Attack.
10 Birds with 1 Stone
Enter Shiny RoboBowser!
Back
Sorry—you haven't set up a character card set for this amiibo yet. You can create a character card set by selecting REGISTER amiibo from the in-game amiibo menu.
Once you have 3 battle cards, you won't be dealt any more unless you use or discard at least 1.
Dodge 5 Pokey attacks in a row.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Balloon Blast Bros. Attack.
15 Birds with 1 Stone
Item-Free Victory
Taking the Shine Off
Mushroom for Improvement
Characters with the highest POW will now act first.
Choose the battle card to discard, and then tap FLIP OVER.
Dodge 5 Sandmaargh attacks in a row.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Toad Trail Bros. Attack.
Trump Card
Save the Best for Last
Remove the amiibo from the Touch Screen.
Fly Guy
You recovered the Flee Command Block!
You recovered Bros. Attacks Rocket Blast and Drill Shell!
You recovered the Hammer Command Block!
You recovered the Trio Attack Trio Kite!
You recovered everything!
Tutorial: Trampoline Guard
Press  to bounce objects using Paper Mario.
Make sure you're directly beneath the cannonball!
You can move left and right using the Circle Pad.
Move to where the cannonball is going to land!
Nice! You're ready for the real thing.
Practice bouncing it back a few times.
Having a hard time figuring out who's being targeted?
Well! You should try using Assist!
Turning it on takes the guesswork out of defense.
Want to give it a try? 
No
Yes
All right! Just press START to activate it.
OK, no problem. Just remember that it's there if you find yourself in a tough spot.
Perfect. Now let's see how it changes things...
Turning it on makes it easier to see who's being targeted.
Try using it if you're having a hard time reading an enemy.
Hey, would you mind attacking Mario?
No offense, but you couldn't hurt a fly. That's why I chose you!
Hey! You just completed an Expert Challenge!
Tap here to see a list of all the Expert Challenges you can attempt.
Every time you complete an Expert Challenge, you'll earn points.
And you can exchange those points for awesome new gear in the gear shop!
Give 'em a shot! What have you got to lose?
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
If you had just stood there, you would have been hit!
Now press  to jump and stomp that guy!
That's the way! Not only did you dodge the attack...
you countered and actually dealt damage to the enemy!
Watch your enemies closely for more chances to counter.
Luigi! You're next!
Press  to jump and stomp!
You seem like you've really got the hang of defense.
But I have something else to show you...
Got it. Well done!
See that?
When Assist is on, you'll always know who's being targeted.
You know what to do, Mario. Jump!
Don't be shy about turning Assist on whenever you need a little help, OK?
I just remembered something really important!
When enemies are about to attack, you might notice a funny little circle around your feet...
You know what? Let me just show you...
HOLD IT!
Mario! Look at your feet!
Wait!
When you see a red target like this, it means the enemy is aiming at you.
This little guy is raising his right leg and looking directly at Mario.
What a dead giveaway!
Now's your chance to do what you were born to do... JUMP!
It's getting ready to attack again... Watch closely!
So how are you feeling about your defense?
This time he's raising his left leg and looking at Luigi. Which can only mean...
All right. Good luck out there!
Bingo! Score one for the little brother.
You got it!
Almost! Keep practicing...
If you want, I can help you a little more. 
No
Yes
Good! Keep it up!
Whoa! Guys!
Can you guess what to do next?
Jump, man!
And that's that! Should I go through it again? 
No
Yes
You'll find that all enemies have a tell before they attack.
And if they have more than one type of attack, they have more than one tell.
If you pay close attention, you'll be mopping the floor with 'em in no time!
This is a little tool called Assist!
STOP! Don't take another step...
Guys, look at your feet.
Targets with dashes like these mean that either one of you could be attacked!
You're going to have to watch the enemy closely...right up until the last second!
Did you catch that? If you're all set, we can move on.
Or...we can totally talk about this enemy's secrets behind his back! 
We're all set.
Tell me the secrets!
All right, let's watch closely...
Do you want to hear more? 
No
Yes
Heh. I knew you two would get the hang of this quickly.
Look at this little scrap. Friend of yours, is he?
Well, if you like your friend, you better stop attacking me!
You...you really didn't understand? Even when I shouted?
Well, now this is happening!
Did I not make myself clear? Yeesh!
Now, don't go thinking it's OK to attack my little minion, either.
Who knows what could happen if he dropped your little friend there...
You got that?
There! Now go play!
I'll take those! Eheeheehee!
Before you attack, look at the Touch Screen below.
If you want to put those copies to good use, watch the demo and then practice!
Copy has been added to Paper Mario's Command Blocks!
I've never seen anyone jump so high. And all you have to do is hold down ?
Say, this gives me an idea...
Try stomping on them!
Ooh, so close...
I have a feeling they're going to try that again...so give it another shot!
Big words, little Goomba. Almost as big as your eyebrows!
Get up, Mario! You can't lose to these guys!
Don't let these paperweights get you down!
Pow! That's how you do it! You're a natural!
That's some good stompin'. But keep practicing—you can do even better!
Whoa! What's happening?
I mean, if you CAN stomp harder, you SHOULD stomp harder, right?
Who does this little paper scrap think he is?
It's a little tricky, isn't it? Don't worry— you can practice as much as you want!
We're gonna flatten you!
What? I meant what I said. He could get flatter than this!
Huh?
You know what? One of the Paper Toads gave me something that could come in handy here...
Here! It's a Copy Block!
Why don't you give it a try right now?
Hey! It's not that simple. But if you had let me finish explaining, you'd know that!
You'll have to spend a turn to make copies.
But check this out! When you have copies and you get attacked...
...the copies will take the damage for you!
Just remember that your copies aren't quite as strong as you are.
Every time you take damage, you'll lose at least one copy. Be careful!
From the looks of things, I'd say there are about six of you right now.
Sweet! You made copies of yourself!
Hey! You've gotta keep it together!
Wait just a minute!
Are you the Mario that Princess Peach was talking about?
Sorry. That's vague. Did you come flying out of a book recently?
Great! Luigi and, um, the other Mario need your help!
Oh, please.
The weakest one of us is still a million times stronger than them!
Wait...that was actually Mario?
Wow! What was that?!
Aw, man! The super stacking... uh...thing... That was OUR idea!
And you can just make copies of yourself anytime? Not fair!
How about that?! Betcha didn't think we could do something that cool!
YOWCH!
Hmph! We better go report this to Master Bowser.
Well, we've already beaten one Mario today... What's one more? Get him, boys!
Prepare the ultra...special... um...stomper-roller thingy...
(We really should have agreed on a name for this, guys...)
Whatever! We're gonna stomp you!
Tutorial: Airplane Guard
To control the airplane, slide the Circle Pad left and right.
Move the airplane over Mario's or Luigi's head.
Once the airplane is hovering over Mario or Luigi...
jump with  or .
Hold down the button to have them grab the airplane.
Practice grabbing on to the paper airplane a few times.
That's it! All right, then. Let's do it for real!
Oh ho! Time's up!
Tick, tock, watch the clock...
What?! That's not supposed to happen. What did you do to my timer?
I can't lose to these puny brats. I'm a king! I...I have a mustache!
Oh. Right. So do they.
Grrr! This is really making me angry!
Tutorial: Boomerang Guard
Use the Circle Pad to move the target cursor.
Give it a try... Move the target cursor!
Try aiming for the ball!
Next, let's throw the boomerang.
Luigi can throw the boomerang with .
After Luigi throws the boomerang, it goes to Mario...
After Mario throws, it goes back to Luigi.
It's Mario's turn! Throw it with .
You've got it! Now it's time for the real thing.
Are you sure you want to cancel?
Cancel the attack and return? Your score here will be lost.
...just remember that Demo and Practice modes are always available. Even in battle!
Just select a Command Block and then hit Demo or Practice on the Touch Screen.
Nailed it! Keep doing it just like that!
No, no, don't thank me...
Did you know that you could be doing WAY more damage to these goofballs?
First, select the Jump Block.
Not bad, not bad! Keep practicing!
Hey, practice makes perfect. Keep practicing, OK?
Don't give up! You can totally do it.
Mario! Luigi! When was the last time you battled?
It's been a while, right? So...
You should check out the Battle Guide!
You can read all about the rules and controls for battle.
After all, I'd hate to see these Goombas walk all over you...
Stop! That tickles!
The guide is your go-to for everything battle related.
Guys! Wait!
And then take a look down here!
Check out DEMO to see how the pros do it.
And then select PRACTICE to try it for yourself!
Now, if things aren't going so well...
Look! That thing is all spiky! Maybe jumping on it isn't the best idea...
I'd say this calls for a hammer attack!
Speaking of hammer attacks...
Each one of Paper Mario's copies gets to swing a hammer too!
Keep that in mind when you really want to smash something GOOD.
What do you think? Got the hang of it?
And remember, if you want to watch a demo or practice...
just check out the Touch Screen!
Wow! You're a wizard with that thing! Nicely done!
The hammer is tough to handle, but it can be really valuable. Keep practicing!
You know, it looks like you're having a tough time using that hammer...
Want to go over how to use it to defend yourself? 
No
Yes
Okeydokey! Just check out the Battle Guide if you change your mind.
So, to use Hammer Guard, you've got to time your swing just right.
Press  for Mario,  for Luigi, and  for Paper Mario...
Hold the button down to start your swing, and then let go to slam the hammer down!
Try it! It's oh-so satisfying!
Want to practice some more? 
No
Yes
All right. Go nuts!
Let's put your skills to the test. Here comes a real enemy! Yikes!
Great! I'm your gal!
Try using a character card.
To use a character card, tap CHARACTER CARD on the Touch Screen.
Remember, after you use a particular amiibo once, you'll need to win a battle before using it again.
WHAT?! How dare you?!
Guys, did you see that? When that...thing... took out its hammer, its head flashed!
Maybe it's just me, but that thing's head looks suspect...
Save the Trio Attacks, guys! At least until you break through that armor on its head!
You think that hurts? BWAHAHA!
Behold! The mightiest power you've ever seen!
BWAHAHA!
Pfft. That doesn't stand a chance against us!
Is that enough of a warm-up? Should we crush them now?
Yes. Let's crush them now. Let's go ALL OUT!
Finally! I've been waiting to try this out!
WHAT?! My power is mightier, obviously!
Whatever. Bring the pain!
We're gonna have to do something about this!
You got it, boss. Dark Star Points, coming up!
See, every time we hit you, we'll earn dark Star Points...
...which we can then use to pummel you with battle cards!
Grr! How do you keep doing that?!
Larry, we just need 5 dark Star Points to use this bad boy!
Oh ho! This one's a real gas! It'll shrink you down to micro size!
Larry, we just need 2 dark Star Points to use this bad boy!
Heehee! This is amazing!
Watch me use this card to disable 2 of their pathetic attacks!
Yeah! What's stopping us from using them too?
Right behind you, Brother!
I've been thinking... How come you guys get to use battle cards and we don't?
Me first! Get ready to follow my lead...
Larry, we just need 6 dark Star Points to use this bad boy!
Oh, this one is AWESOME! If they hit me, I'll just recover HP!
Larry, we just need 3 dark Star Points to use this bad boy!
This little card increases our POW! Look out!
There's no coming back from this one...
I'm talking 180 points of damage to each of you!
Larry, we just need 4 dark Star Points to use this bad boy!
Get a load of this one! It'll dish out 60 damage to each of you. Bahaha!
This card increases SPEED. Bahaha!
When you're buried in a barrel, it makes it hard to dodge any attacks coming your way.
When the one on the left barks more than the one on the right, it will charge you directly.
You'll see a lot of magical stuff fly up into the sky, but you only have to pay attention to the sparkles that rain down.
If you pay attention to how the colors are set up, it'll help you dodge when one of the Kameks comes flying through.
When Paper Dry Bones stacks up a huge stack of bones to drop on you, watch for the bones to tilt to the right before countering!
Just remember that the buttons you use to make your characters jump haven't changed.
When the one on the right barks more, then it will attack instead, briefly disappearing beforehand. Be patient, and counterattack at just the right time.
The sparkles will fall around the character who's being targeted. Stay patient, and be ready to counter!
So calmly press , , and  before the chase begins to figure out who's who. This helps you dodge the upcoming attacks.
Hammer Bros. and Paper Hammer Bros. throw their hammers at different speeds.
Paper Hammer Bros. throw their hammers a bit slower than regular Hammer Bros., so watch out if you're battling both types at once!
Don't be surprised if Shiny RoboBowser unleashes a sort of Trio Attack of his own and turns your characters into paper!
Sometimes Monty Mole throws a golden egg instead of a rock. Crack it open by jumping on it to earn a bunch of coins!
To make matters worse, sometimes they swap hammers! Pay extra close attention when that happens.
When Roy attacks you with a giant rock, be ready to counter several times!
You can still jump using the same controls. Just watch his eyes before he launches his fire attack. He'll look at the character he's targeting.
If you can successfully counter all his throws, the rock will fly back and deal damage to Wendy!
You'll have to vary your attacks against these Kameks. They like to disable your most frequently used Command Block!
Try to stay focused even while he's attacking. His eyes will point to the next target before the first attack is over!
When Petey Piranha chases you, watch his arms closely. He'll wave one of them before he attacks.
Alternate your attacks, and be prepared to use some of your backups until you regain the use of all of your Command Blocks.
Keep your eyes on HIS eyes the whole time—even after his fire attack.
The arm he waves indicates which side he's going to attack. Act quickly, and jump to catch the airplane to avoid the attack!
If he looks up after attacking, then his next attack will be slightly delayed—it's a trick to mess up your timing!
No matter how many Chargin' Chucks you beat, there are more waiting to join the battle.
Watch how many times Shiny RoboBowser bumps his fists before his punching attack. That's how many punches he'll throw.
You'll have to defeat all of them at once to win the battle.
He always punches Mario with his right hand and Luigi with his left. Pay attention to the timing, and use  and  to dodge.
You'll have to use an attack that hits all of your enemies at once, like Bomb Derby—or try a Trio Attack.
After he's done punching, he'll attack Paper Mario with fire breath.
Even if you dodge the fire breath, the attack isn't over! He'll throw at least one more giant fireball at Paper Mario.
If you attack either Bowser when he's hiding in his shell, he won't take any damage and will immediately counterattack!
Thankfully, only one Bowser will go into his shell at a time. Focus your attacks on the one who remains exposed.
Shiny RoboBowser can call on some of his shiny paper minions to help him regenerate armor and HP.
If you stun Wiggler, Paper Kamek will step to the front. That's your chance to attack him directly!
Focus attacks like Fire Flower and Bomb Derby on his minions before they can help him regenerate!
Of course, Wiggler won't be down for the count just yet. Paper Kamek will revive him after a few turns.
To defeat Pokey, you first need to destroy all of his body segments.
Your best shot at victory is to hit Paper Kamek with everything you've got while he's in front. Good luck!
Hit his body with the hammer or 3D Red Shell, and then go for the head! His body will keep regenerating until you defeat the head.
Unless you defeat them with one shot, Paper Fuzzies split into smaller Paper Fuzzies each time you attack them.
Try using attacks like Drill Shell or Trio Kite to beat them with just one shot.
When a Bob-omb reaches 0 HP, it will perform one last self-destructive attack.
If you can successfully counter the Bob-omb's self-destruction, you can deal damage to other enemies in the battle.
Also, if you defeat Bob-ombs using a Trio Attack or a fire attack, they won't have a chance to self-destruct.
When Broozer comes in close swinging one arm in a circle, that means he's about to throw a powerful punch.
When Sandmaargh goes underground, it's hard to tell who he's going to attack.
Paper Boomerang Bros. have a nasty habit of tossing boomerangs made of other Paper Boomerang Bros. at you!
Other times he fakes a punch before attacking.
When you defeat Ludwig or Larry, the remaining Koopaling will fire off a super-powerful magic attack!
Be ready to jump as soon as you see him beneath one of your characters!
If one of those boomerangs hits you, it will unfold and join the battle as another Paper Boomerang Bro, so watch out!
If you time it right, you should be able to stomp him.
If the attack lands, you could be done for! So make sure you're in a position to counter it...
When King Boo approaches and shoots projectiles at you, pay attention to whether he shoots them high or low.
You'll see a lot of magical stuff fly up into the sky, but you only have to pay attention to the sparkles that rain down.
Paper Sombrero Guys raise the POW of other enemies, so be sure to take them out first!
When the projectiles return to the screen, they'll be coming at you from the same heights.
The sparkles will fall around the character who's being targeted. Stay patient, and be ready to counter!
Mechakoopas behave differently once they've been damaged. Pay close attention to their tells!
Cheep Cheeps get weaker and weaker as more turns pass.
Paper Paragoombas like to team up and attack Paper Mario. When that happens, get ready to do your best Flutter Jump.
When they run out of energy, they either stop attacking or flee from the battle.
Jump as high as you can to avoid the attack. If you time it just right, you'll also stomp one of the Paper Paragoombas.
When Ludwig and Larry duck into their shells and start spinning, Ludwig is always the first to attack.
If you can avoid them for a while before engaging, they will begin the battle in a weakened state.
So watch carefully when they stop—so you know which of your characters needs to dodge first.
If Paper Petey Piranha is stacked up when he chases you, you can jump to dodge. But if he's broken up, you'll need Paper Mario's help.
Urchins fly and have spikes, so you can't jump on them or hit them with a hammer.
Try to remember how many copies he had before the start of the attack, and watch out where he places them!
Not sure you can win a battle? Check out your level and gear.
You'll have to use a Bros. Attack like Drill Shell—or one of your Trio Attacks.
If you're facing enemies at a higher level than your characters, you may need to fight weaker opponents until you level up.
Urchins tend to drop valuable items when they're beaten. But they tend to explode if you fail to beat them, so watch out!
You can see an enemy's level next to its name in battle.
Watch Goombas carefully if you're not sure who they're going to attack.
Always make sure that you have your best gear equipped. Select GEAR from the main menu to check out your inventory.
If a Goomba looks at Mario and raises its right leg, it will attack Mario.
If you're having a hard time dodging enemy attacks, choose gear that raises your DEF as much as possible.
If a Goomba looks at Luigi and raises its left leg, it will attack Luigi.
During the chase attack, Paper Kamek sets up a wall of copies to shield Kamek while he prepares.
If several of your characters are low on HP, use Nuts to help them all recover at once!
Knock out some of the Paper Kameks to create an opening, and then aim for the single Kamek flying around in the background.
You can use Nuts and other items anywhere on the map, so it's a good idea to fill up your HP before getting into a battle.
If you continue attacking Ninjis the same way, they'll figure it out.
You'll need to hit him several times to prevent him from launching a powerful attack!
Try switching between jump and hammer attacks.
And remember, Bros. Attacks and Trio Attacks are always effective.
When Shiny RoboBowser jumps off the screen, watch the ground. A rush of air will form around the character that he's targeting for a stomp.
King Bob-omb is set to blow when the timer runs out! You really don't want that to happen...
When Roy and Wendy begin chasing you, you'll have to dodge attacks from both of them!
If you counter all the stomps, you could end up locked arm in arm. Mash the correct button to give Shiny RoboBowser one last whack!
Your best bet is to attack him with everything you've got from the very beginning.
Roy will toss boulders, and Wendy will spit fire at Paper Mario. Stay on your toes!
Kamek shoots 3 types of magic projectiles—○, △, and □.
Try using attacks like Bomb Derby or Drill Shell to inflict lots of damage in a short amount of time.
To win the paper-airplane-tossing contest, you have to press  at just the right time.
You can actually make some of Roy's boulders work for you if you time it just right...
During an attack, he'll stay consistent with which symbol he shoots at each character. But he switches them all up between attacks!
It's tough to beat Paper Dry Bones, because he keeps reviving his copies as you defeat them!
Successful counterattacks can sometimes put a little time back on the clock, so focus on defending yourself!
To get the most height, wait until Paper Mario is as close as he can possibly be to the ground—without touching—before pressing . 
Buzzy Beetles can be tricky to defeat with jump or fire attacks.
If you move Paper Mario just right, you can trick Wendy into walking into the path of an oncoming boulder!
The first 3 symbols come slowly, so try to remember which characters he aimed for to counter all of his symbols.
Focus your efforts on defeating a whole stack at once, or else the individual copies will just regenerate again and again.
Repeat this technique each time the plane dips to maximize your flight and win!
Instead, try using your hammer or Bros. Attacks like 3D Red Shell and Drill Shell.
Once you hurt one, it'll crawl back into its shell to avoid further damage. You can hurt it only with Trio Attacks at that point.
You can hit Buzzy Beetles with your hammer to force them back out of their shells, but watch out—they'll counterattack!
If 1 or more of your characters is low on HP or has fainted, help them all recover at once with Nuts and Double 1-Up Mushrooms.
To counter Shiny RoboBowser's meteor attack, watch his hands. He launches at Mario from his right hand and Luigi from his left.
When Monty Mole opens up a bunch of holes, watch closely. The holes will disappear one by one, and he'll attack from the last one.
Remember, you can use most of your items anywhere on the map, so it's a good idea to fill up your HP before getting into a battle.
He'll also spit fireballs at Paper Mario. Remember the order in which he fires, and get ready to counter!
If you time it right, you can smack him with a hammer each time he shows his face!
If Petey Piranha grabs one of your characters and eats him, that character will be unable to attack for a while.
If one of your characters has been eaten, try knocking Petey Piranha over.
Think you're safe when the Fire Bros. throw fireballs into the air? Think again! The fireballs will come crashing down on the next turn.
You can knock him over by dodging his grab attack or by countering his charge attack.
If the Fire Bros. jump before throwing a fireball, there's no need to react. The fireball will fly over your head.
When you see the Bowsers sucking in lots of air, they're about to unleash a big fire attack!
When he's down, do a jump attack to make him release anyone he's eaten.
If you can remember the pattern of their throws, you'll be able to use your hammers to deflect some fireballs back at them. Watch closely!
The first blast always goes toward Paper Mario. Watch to see which Bowser inhales longer to see where the second blast will go.
Save your Trio Attacks for when Shiny RoboBowser's head is exposed.
Paper Kamek shoots 3 types of magic projectiles—○, △, and □.
If you use one when his head armor is intact, not only will it not inflict damage, it'll cause Shiny RoboBowser to counterattack!
During an attack, he'll stay consistent with which symbol he'll shoot at each character. But he switches them all up between attacks!
As soon as you crack through his head armor, that's your chance to unleash your most powerful Trio Attack. Let 'er rip!
The first 3 symbols come slowly, so try to remember which characters he aimed for to counter all of his symbols.
Try using fire against paper enemies—it deals 30% more damage than usual!
Shiny RoboBowser is protected by the power of dozens of shiny paper enemies!
You'll have to break down the armor before dealing any damage to either of the Bowsers inside.
Jumping on Big Pokey won't work! You'll have to attack his body with the hammer.
Pay attention to when the armor on his head breaks—that's your chance to start doing real damage.
If you destroy all the segments of his body, his head will be dizzy and unable to move for a short time.
Shiny RoboBowser's armor will regenerate before long, so give it everything you've got while he's exposed.
However, he will occasionally regrow as many segments as the remaining Pokey currently has.
Watch out—Fly Guys have been known to carry bombs.
Ready your hammer while Sandmaargh gets ready to eat you...
When the armor regenerates, you'll have to break it down again before dealing damage to the real Bowsers.
A good strategy is to attack both Pokeys at the same rate, so that they always have the same number of parts.
Luckily, you can use this to your advantage. If you defeat a Fly Guy who's carrying a bomb, the bomb will detonate and damage surrounding enemies.
If you time it right, you can whack a nearby object or two to defend yourself.
All-enemy attacks like the Fire Flower and Trio Racquet are perfect for this.
Fly Guys like to toss a bomb back and forth. Pay attention to the Fly Guy who's holding one, and focus your attacks on him.
After King Boo chases you, he'll get close and fire a gigantic spirit ball.
If you aren't sure who has the bomb, save your strongest attacks. Unleash 'em when you know which Fly Guy has the bomb.
But if you throw a boomerang at just the right spot, you can knock the spirit ball back into his mouth to counter the attack.
The Fly Guys will keep tossing their bomb around until you choose an attack, so make sure you watch them closely just as you're selecting.
Jumping on a Spiny will only hurt you! You'll have to use a hammer attack to hurt a Spiny.
If you're having a hard time pulling off attacks, try watching the Demo or use Practice until you get the hang of it.
Take out as many Paper Boos as you can before King Boo's big attack to make things easier.
If you hit a Spiny with your hammer, it will eventually flip over.
And remember, you can always try Easy Attack Mode for Bros. Attacks and Trio Attacks.
With the Spiny on its back, you can safely perform a jump attack to inflict extra damage!
Check out the Battle Guide for more info on Demo, Practice, and Easy Attack Mode.
Before you can use battle cards, you have to arrange them in a battle card set. Go to the main menu and tap BATTLE CARDS to get started.
If you find it difficult to dodge certain attacks, try using a Boo Biscuit.
When you find yourself being chased by Shy Guys carrying a giant bomb, use a Boomerang Guard to aim for the Shy Guys, not the bomb!
You won't be able to attack while it's in effect, but you won't take any damage from enemy attacks either.
If you take out enough Shy Guys, they'll drop the bomb on themselves.
Don't listen to King Boo's warning... When a Paper Boo comes out holding Paper Mario, attack that Paper Boo!
If you have time, you can also hit Ludwig or Larry with the boomerang!
If you can knock that Paper Boo out, you'll have rescued Paper Mario! Bros. Attacks like Drill Shell are pretty effective...
Don't attack King Boo while the Paper Boo is holding Paper Mario. You'll only be hurting yourself!
Ludwig and Larry use battle cards, so don't be shy about using your own to counter the effects.
For example, if they use a card that raises their POW or SPEED, you can play a card that lowers those attributes back to normal.
If Ludwig plays a card that blocks several rounds of damage, try playing a card that deals several rounds of damage to nullify the effect.
The fastest way to beat Paper Petey Piranha is to figure out which copy to attack.
After you knock copies out of his stack, pay attention to them as they lie on the floor. The real one peeks up sometimes.
Attack the entire stack to break up the copies. Then, when you figure out which copy is real, focus your attacks on that one!
Try to pay attention to whether the bombs he throws are lit.
If you defeat either Roy or Wendy, the remaining Koopaling will bust out a super-fierce attack!
The ones that haven't been lit yet will pause briefly before hitting you, giving you an extra chance to knock them back.
Before attacking, the Chain Chomps will bark a number of times. Listen carefully to time your defense!
If the attack lands, you could be done for! So make sure you're in a position to counter it...
Watch the colors of the warp portals that the Kameks set up. When the Kameks enter one color, they'll leave from the same color.
The Pokeys will always regenerate their segments if one of them has more remaining than the other.
Try attacking them both equally to keep them from regenerating!
