View papercraft battle tutorial? 
No
Yes
That's it! The fun and games are over!
Heehee!
Yeah! Let's call in some backup!
Move your papercraft with the Circle Pad.
Use dash to hit the blocks.
Move with the Circle Pad.
Ouch! Watch out for Pokey's spikes!
Press  to turn your papercraft around 180 degrees. This is useful when you have to change directions in a hurry.
If you can't attack an enemy from the side, try attacking from above.
Press  to point the camera in the direction your papercraft is facing. Use this to quickly see where you're going.
Retry papercraft battle? 
Retry. 
Retry in Easy Mode. 
Return to title. (Progress will not be saved.)
You can turn around by pressing . And you can press  to point the camera in the direction you're facing.
All unsaved data will be lost. Are you sure? 
Yes
No
You can use dash to move across the gaps in the ice.
If you press  and  at the same time, you can simultaneously turn around and look in the direction you're facing.
Retry papercraft battle? 
Retry. 
Return to Battle Ring menu.
When you dash, your parasol can deflect cannonballs.
Press  and  at the same time to turn around and look in the direction you're facing.
Retry papercraft battle? 
Retry. 
Return to title. (Progress will not be saved.)
Use your parasol to defend yourself against shells.
Retry papercraft battle? 
Retry. 
Retry in Easy Mode. 
Skip battle. 
Return to title. (Progress will not be saved.)
Try hitting Bowser Jr. with a cannonball!
The goal in these battles is to defeat enemy papercrafts by reducing their HP to 0.
Retry papercraft battle? 
Retry. 
Skip battle. 
Return to title. (Progress will not be saved.)
You can also deflect bombs with your parasol.
When your papercraft takes damage, your HP Meter goes down.
Charge up your papercraft's power at these spots.
Skip papercraft battle and continue with your adventure? Any items or coins you have earned in this battle will be lost. 
Yes
No
Try throwing things at your enemies...
When the rings light up the musical notes, press .
When the rings light up the musical notes, press .
Setting Enemies on Fire
Towing Floating Opponents
Grrr... This isn't over. This is just the beginning!
Our ultimate papercraft WILL NOT BE BEATEN!
Ooh! You're gonna regret that, Mario!
Papercraft Luigi can perform a flying hammer attack! You'll need it to defeat certain spiky opponents.
？？？？？？？？？？？
After charging up your papercraft, you can use it to attack an opponent by dashing or throwing.
GAHAHAHA!
Now's your chance to hit 'em with fireballs!
First, dash at your opponent with . The opponent will falter and take a small amount of damage.
Get a load of this!
Dash with  to attack an opponent.
Not bad, right? They really captured my essence...
Get close to Dry Bones, and do a ground pound!
Opponents also dash to attack, but they're weak when they're preparing to dash.
You keep using those fireballs... Pah!
Try hitting an opponent while it's preparing to dash.
It's gonna take more than that to beat us!
Dash forward to hit enemies!
When your opponent is knocked over, that's your chance to do lots of damage! Throw your papercraft at it when it's down.
Yes...feel its power! Observe its craftsmanship!
Cower before its overwhelming size! Bwahaha!
Make sure your target cursor is aimed at the opponent!
We've spared no expense. See for yourself!
Dang it! They're scratching our paparcraft all up!
Restart this papercraft battle from the beginning? If you restart, you will lose any progress you've made.
Aim the target cursor at the opponent, and throw your papercraft with .
Let's see if your papercraft can take the heat!
What are we doing messing around like this? Let's break out the big bombs!
After throwing your papercraft, you have to go pick it back up.
Good idea!
Press  to throw fireballs with papercraft Fire Mario.
Right? High five!
If you hit an opponent with enough fireballs, it will catch on fire and be temporarily unable to move.
クラフトバトル用メッセージ(仮)
Gahaha! Come and get us...if you can!
Pfft. They probably can't!
Knock over your opponent with , and then throw your papercraft at it with !
Your best chance to knock over an opponent is to attack its back or hit it when it's preparing to dash!
Eheeheehee!
Attacking Basics
You're a pesky one, aren't you?
Knocking Over Opponents
It's not fair that you get to use fire now! We had it first!
This concludes the tutorial. Now let the battle begin!
It would probably be bad if they hit us with that fire, don't you think?
Well, sure... But that's a big IF, don'tcha think?
Use Papercraft Charge Spots to charge your Toad Meter.
Eheeheehee!
Find the rhythm, and press  on the beat.
You're not getting to Master Bowser on my watch!
Here we come!
A star has appeared!
Mushrooms restore 50% of your HP.
You can get mushrooms from ? Blocks.
About Papercraft Battles
Papercraft Controls
Papercraft Charge Spots
Attacking
Luigi's Throw
Eheeheehee!
Peach's Dash
You know this is useless, right? You can't win!
Cancel papercraft battle and return to the main menu?
Peach's Throw
Remember that Megacrinkle Goomba you guys smashed up so rudely?
Try hitting the green switch.
Yoshi's Dash
Well, it's back and better than ever!
Time it just right, and then press !
Yoshi's Throw
Of course, you'll be lucky to even make it that far.
That's it!
Fire Mario's Fireballs
Eheeheehee!
Now I'm REALLY mad!
No more going easy on you!
Get ready for an epic stomping!
Use dash to dodge enemies and projectiles.
When you dash with papercraft Yoshi, you can use his tongue to grab enemies and objects.
You can use papercraft Yoshi's tongue to tow floating opponents.
Press  in the air to perform a ground pound!
You can use a ground pound to hit switches or stun your enemies by landing near them.
Cancel papercraft battle and return to the Battle Ring menu?
Pick up your papercraft.
Your opponent's back is also a weak spot. Hit it with a dash to deal lots of damage!
Try hitting your opponent in the back with a dash.
Eheeheehee!
Throw your papercraft at your opponent to defeat it!
When you dash with your Peach papercraft, its parasol opens. Use it to deflect projectiles!
Ooh! You...you...impudent fools!
When you throw your Peach papercraft, it will open its parasol, allowing it to fly farther than any other papercraft so far!
Don't you know you're just making us madder?
After a throw, press  just before landing on an enemy to inflict extra damage.
That's right!
Wait...what are we going to do about it?
We're going to MAGIC HARDER, of course! Eheeheehee!
Proceed to the next area? 
No
Yes
Good luck smashing through this!
Eheeheehee!
