Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Mega Thwonk Bros. Attack.
Deal 100 or more damage to 1 enemy with a single attack.
メドレーでＳランク！
Remove the amiibo from the NFC reader/writer.
Load character card set.
Paper Parade!
The good news is you found a Paper Toad! The bad news is you scared him off. This could be a real challenge...
Visit the Lakitu Info Center, and rescue more Paper Toads by completing quests. 
Demo and Practice
Get an S Rating with Chargin' Chuck Corps in the Battle Ring.
Deal 250 or more damage to 1 enemy at LV 20 or higher with a single attack.
Make 20 Paper Mario copies.
Use Trio Attacks 3 times.
Defeat 2 Goombas and 2 Paper Goombas.
King Boo S Rating
Character card set has been loaded!
Say Good-Bye!
Paper Mario glides into action! Now you have three heroes to help you stand up to Bowser's minions and rescue Paper Toads!
Head back under Doop Doop Dunes, and see if you can find a spot to place your new item.
Dodge 5 Paper Boomerang Bro attacks in a row.
Deal 500 or more damage to 1 enemy at LV 30 or higher with a single attack.
Make 100 Paper Mario copies.
Use Trio Attacks 50 times.
Trio Racquet A Rating
Loading character card set.
That seems to be a different character's amiibo. Please tap an amiibo of the same character.
Steel Yourself
Congratulations! By completing the game, you've unlocked the music player. Check out the title screen to begin using it.
To use a battle card, you'll need to register it to a set.
Each set needs to have 10 battle cards in it. No more, no less!
You learned how to dash, which should boost your progress! Literally!
Explore the dungeon, and look for an escape. 
Easy Mode
Use a Bros. Attack to make Mario and Luigi attack together! 
Make 200 Paper Mario copies.
Use Trio Attacks 100 times.
That seems to be a different character's amiibo. Please tap an amiibo of the same character.
Cheerful Interlude
Saving data. Please do not turn off the power. You will be able to restart the game from your last save.
Oh! I almost forgot. There's one more trick I can show you.
No Gear
Things are now even tougher for Mario & crew! The two Princess Peaches have been kidnapped! After the two Bowsers!
Make your way to Twinsy Tropics. 
Bros. Attacks
Complete a Bros. Attack to deal a lot of damage!
Get an S Rating on Cannonball Chuck in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Megacrinkle Goomba in the Battle Ring.
Paper Swoop Dodge
Paper Petey Piranha
Switch the action icon to the glider, and then press →→ to use Trio Glider.
View character cards on the Touch Screen.
Falling to Pieces
Save complete.
Now, if you mess something up beyond belief...
You flattened Petey Piranha! Keep chasing both Bowsers—the princesses need your help!
Visit the Lakitu Info Center in Twinsy Tropics. 
Each Bros. Attack consumes BP. Use items like Syrup Jars to recover BP.
Trio Attacks
Use battle cards 10 times.
Paper Fire Bro Dodge
Big Pokey Duo
Beginner Bros.
Just Getting Started
Control Mario's actions by pressing  and Luigi's by pressing .
Press  while in the air to float upward. You can do this up to 3 times.
No character cards found. To create one, select MAKE A CARD from the in-game amiibo menu.
Strange Things Afoot
Those minions are up to something BIG. Catch the Paper Toads, and see if they can help you respond in kind.
Find the dock in the Toad Village. 
Paper Mario's Copy Ability
Use battle cards 50 times.
Goomba Dodge
Modest Bros.
Excellent 3D Red Shell
Use Trio Glider to reach high or faraway places.
It's super easy to turn a ? Card into a character card...
Head back to Peach's Castle. 
Get an S Rating with Kamek Duo in the Battle Ring.
Use battle cards 150 times.
Start 15 battles with an advantage by stomping, hammering, or dashing into enemies.
Trio Whirligig A Rating
Mega Thwonk A Rating
Buzzy Beetle Dodge
Hardworking Bros.
Excellent Fire Flower
Just tap the amiibo icon and select MAKE A CARD!
If you need a few pointers, check out the guide.
Make your way to Gloomy Woods. 
Dodge 5 Paper Ninji attacks in a row.
Start 100 battles with an advantage by stomping, hammering, or dashing into enemies.
Megacrinkle Goomba S Rating
Excellent Rocket Blast
Excellent Hammer
They're really helpful—especially if you find yourself in a tough battle.
But don't take my word for it... Give it a try!
Make your way to Mount Brrr. 
Move the airplane above Mario's or Luigi's head by sliding the Circle Pad to the left or right.
Dodge 5 Fire Piranha Plant attacks in a row.
Start 200 battles with an advantage by stomping, hammering, or dashing into enemies.
Excellent Drill Shell
Coin Enthusiast
If you have 2 amiibo of the same character, you might be able to create a sparkle card!
Once the airplane is hovering over Mario or Luigi, jump with  or  and hold down the button to hang on.
Dodge 5 Paper Scaredy Rat attacks in a row.
Paper Spike Dodge
Excellent Bomb Derby
Coin Collector
Trio Hammer
This amiibo has already been used to create a character card set on a different system.
To use it on this system, you must delete the previous character card set.
Sparkle cards don't just look cool—they're also stronger than regular character cards. And using them earns you Star Points!
Use all items in the game at least once.
Dodge 5 Broozer attacks in a row.
Defeat 3 or more enemies with a single attack.
Airplane Challenge
Excellent Dropchopper
Coin King
Remove the amiibo from the NFC reader/writer to stop the roulette.
Delete character card set? 
No
Yes
To create a sparkle card, you first need 2 compatible amiibo of the same character.
In Easy Mode, your characters will be stronger than usual and enemies will be weaker than usual.
Get an A Rating on Trio Shuriken in Attackathon.
Dodge 5 Paper Broozer attacks in a row.
Clear King Bob-omb in the Battle Ring.
Clear Rampaging Wiggler in the Battle Ring.
Defeat 10 or more enemies with a single attack.
Excellent Cannonball Chuck
You can move with the Circle Pad, and the characters behind will follow automatically.
Failed to delete amiibo battle card set.
You can even use an amiibo that has been registered to another system, as long as it has been set up with a character card set.
You can also use Easy Attack Mode and the Hint Block while playing in Easy Mode. See the guide for more information on those features.
Dodge 5 Paper Hammer Bro attacks in a row.
Defeat 15 or more enemies with a single attack.
With max copies, get an Excellent with Paper Mario's Hammer attack.
Paper Spear Guy Dodge
Excellent Balloon Blast
Sorry—this amiibo is not supported.
That doesn't seem to be a compatible amiibo. Please remove it from the Touch Screen.
Failed to create character card set.
Epic Story
Remove Gear
With the Pokeys out of the way, the path to Bowser's Castle seems clear...
Your system will compare the character card sets for both amiibo. If you have the same card on both systems, it will be upgraded!
You can turn on Easy Mode by selecting the wrench icon in the menu. You'll also be given the option to turn it on after losing a battle.
Dodge 5 Paper Paratroopa attacks in a row.
Excellent Toad Trail
Jumping helps you navigate through the Mushroom Kingdom and also hit blocks.
Wireless is turned off. Please enable wireless to use amiibo functionality.
Behind Closed Doors
You pummeled that Papercraft Kamek to pieces! Now make your way to Bowser's Castle.
You can create only 1 sparkle card per day, so be sure to save your data if you make one.
Battle Cards
Dodge 5 Biddybud attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Paper Fire Bro attacks in a row.
Item Buffet
Sandmaargh Dodge
Paper Sombrero Guy Dodge
Excellent Mega Thwonk
Excellent Paper Jump
In addition to giving you coins, blocks can sometimes open up new paths. Hit 'em all!
An error occurred while writing or reading amiibo data. Please try again.
Forest Fairy Melody
Total number of drill spots discovered.
Don't you hate it when you get hit with a giant cannonball and end up in jail...and Luigi loses a book that contains an entire world...
When Mario and crew crouch during an enemy's attack, that means they can do a Jump Guard.
How to Use Battle Cards
Sorry—this amiibo already contains data from another game. If you want to use this amiibo, please delete the previous data using amiibo Settings.
Mountaintop Secrets
You escaped your cell and got back your Command Blocks to boot! Now to find a way back aboveground.
Make your way through Gloomy Woods. 
To view the character cards you've created for a particular amiibo, select amiibo from the menu and then press VIEW CARDS.
Jump by pressing the appropriate character's button.
King Boo
Excellent Paper Hammer
You haven't set up a character card set for this amiibo yet. Please create a character card set using the Register amiibo menu before continuing.
Mysterious Bowser's Castle
Randomly assign battle cards to this set and exit the menu?
You learned Trio Grab! You can use it to grab and throw objects or even pull yourself across a gap.
Visit the Lakitu Info Center, and rescue more Paper Toads. 
You can also view the character card sets of amiibo registered on other systems.
Jump to avoid attacks, and deal damage by landing on enemies.
??????
Owner
Sorry—amiibo data has been corrupted. Attempt to restore amiibo data? 
Yes
No
Floating Castle of Doom
The file has been copied.
You found a strange-looking door. It seems important. Maybe make a note of it.
Solve all of Neo Bowser Castle's puzzles and make your way to Bowser and Paper Bowser for the final showdown! 
Paper Mario can fly high if you hold down  after jumping.
Battle Card Sets
When you win a battle, all of your characters will earn EXP. When a character has earned enough EXP, his level will go up.
Dodge 5 Paper Paragoomba attacks in a row.
Boomerang Challenge
Nickname
Sorry—the amiibo data is corrupted. If you have previously registered this amiibo on this system, you may be able to restore the data.
You can also reformat the amiibo data by selecting amiibo Settings within HOME Menu Settings. Please remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
Holding Hands in the Darkness
You defeated Roy and Wendy! Time to head back aboveground for some well-deserved sun!
Avoid Attacks with Copies
In Easy Mode, your characters will be stronger than usual and enemies will be weaker than usual.
As your characters level up, they'll gain more HP and their attacks will deal more damage to enemies.
Clear Boss Medley in the Battle Ring.
Trio Racquet S Rating
Kamek Duo
Confirm
An error occurred while writing or reading amiibo data. Please try again.
Welcome to the Lakitu Info Center!
Finally, you made it out of that gloomy underground cavern to find blue skies and the ocean. Wait...where are you?
Jump Attacks
You can also use Easy Attack Mode and the Hint Block while playing in Easy Mode. See the guide for more information on those features.
If you're having a hard time with a strong enemy, try battling some weaker enemies first to level up your characters.
Dodge 5 Boomerang Bro attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Monty Mole attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Goomba attacks in a row.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Bowser Jr. in the Battle Ring.
Back
Please turn on the NFC reader/writer and point it toward the infrared transceiver on your Nintendo 3DS system.
Teatime on the Clouds
You made it to the Toad Village in Twinsy Tropics. But there's no time to rest—more Paper Toads need rescuing!
Hammer Attacks
You can turn on Easy Mode by selecting the wrench icon in the menu. You'll also be given the option to turn it on after losing a battle.
Achieved
Dodge 5 Spike attacks in a row.
Finish a single battle using only Hammer attacks that are Excellent.
Shy Guy Dodge
Bowser Jr. Duo
???
Quit
Time's Running Out!
Your battle card set is full!
You got a boat! Time to leave Twinsy Tropics.
Turning Easy Mode on makes your characters stronger and enemies easier to defeat.
To cycle through action icons, press  or . Or simply tap the Touch Screen.
Easy Mode
You can't complete Expert Challenges while playing in Easy Mode. So, once you get the hang of things, try turning Easy Mode off.
Cancel
If you want to switch Easy Mode on or off, you can do so here in the menu settings.
This battle card set is ready to use.
You can immediately switch back to Jump by pressing  and  simultaneously.
Once your amiibo is registered, select MAKE A CARD from the in-game amiibo menu.
Hint Block
Fly Guy Dodge
Please don't remove the amiibo.
Compare character card sets.
Oh! I forgot. I have to tell you how to do that. Press !
If another action icon is active, tapping on it twice quickly will also switch back to Jump.
Select a ? Card to use. There are 2 types of ? Cards—LV 1 and LV 2. LV 2 ? Cards make stronger character cards.
Avoid all enemy attacks during an Airplane Guard.
Trio Whirligig S Rating
Mega Thwonk S Rating
Fire Piranha Plant Dodge
Papercraft Bowser Jr. S Rating
Write sparkle card information.
Clear this battle card set?
Once you've selected a ? Card, tap a registered amiibo on the Touch Screen or NFC reader/ writer and follow the prompts.
If you take damage from an enemy's attack, your character's HP will decrease. If it reaches 0, your character will faint.
Dodge 5 Big Tail Goomba attacks in a row.
Get an S Rating on Boss Medley in the Battle Ring.
Sparkle card information has been written.
Your ? Card is now a character card! Tap your amiibo on the Touch Screen or NFC reader/writer once more to add the card to your collection.
Choose Jump to deal damage to an enemy by stomping on it.
If Mario and Luigi both reach 0 HP, the game will end.
Dodge 5 Koopa Troopa attacks in a row.
Broozer Dodge
Paper Fuzzy Dodge
Expert 3D Red Shell
Writing sparkle card information.
Defeat enemies by dealing damage to them until their HP reaches 0.
Not to worry! You can restart the battle from the beginning or restore from your last save point. Be careful out there!
Toad Trail A Rating
Paper Broozer Dodge
Expert Fire Flower
If your HP is getting low or one of your characters faints, select the Item Block and use an item to help him recover.
Get 30 Lucky Hits.
Expert Rocket Blast
Sliding
Select a card to upgrade, and confirm with .
An error occurred while writing the amiibo data. Please try again.
Your amiibo data may have been corrupted.
Restore Set
Mushrooms can restore a character's HP.
Get an S Rating on Trio Shuriken in Attackathon.
Get 70 Lucky Hits.
Expert Drill Shell
You can make all three of your characters jump at once by pressing .
Prepare 2 amiibo of the same character type.
That doesn't seem to be a compatible amiibo. Please remove it from the NFC area.
Mario Craft Rhythm
Toadette is ready and waiting to build you a new papercraft. She just needs you to collect a few more Paper Toads first...
To begin, select REGISTER amiibo from the in-game amiibo menu.
1-Up Mushrooms can revive a character who has fainted.
Get 150 Lucky Hits.
Petey Piranha S Rating
Expert Bomb Derby
You can move with the Circle Pad, and the characters behind will follow automatically.
You won't jump as high as usual, but you can jump farther. Give it a try!
Luigi Craft Rhythm
The new papercraft is under construction, and Mario and crew are off to find the Bowser Jrs. Hurry, guys—the princesses need rescuing!
Registering your amiibo will create a character card set.
You can buy items from a shop or earn them by defeating enemies. Make sure you have enough before you head into battle!
Expert Challenges
The order in which your characters and enemies attack depends on their relative stats—particularly SPEED.
Expert Dropchopper
Beginner Trio
Sorry—character card information cannot be written to this amiibo. Please tap the previously tapped amiibo again.
Please tap the amiibo on the NFC area to attempt to restore data, or press  to quit.
Princess Peach Craft Rhythm
Total number of Paper Toads rescued.
The Princess Peach papercraft won a decisive victory. Unfortunately, that didn't stop the Bowser Jrs. from making a speedy getaway. Time to chase them down!
Action Icons
Once you've created a character card set, your amiibo will be ready to use!
Attack enemies by jumping on them, hammering them, or using a Bros. Attack or Trio Attack. An enemy is defeated when its HP reaches 0.
Don't like the way a battle is going? Select the Flee Block to escape. But use it sparingly—you won't earn any coins or experience by fleeing.
Trampoline Guard
The higher a character's SPEED, the more often he will be able to act.
Avoid an enemy attack during a Boomerang Guard.
Get an Excellent with the Trio Racquet Trio Attack.
Expert Cannonball Chuck
Modest Trio
This card will be transformed into a character card.
That is not the correct amiibo. Please remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
Yoshi Craft Rhythm
Oh no! The Kameks and Bowser Jrs. escaped with the princesses at the last second!
Please note that you won't be able to create a character card set if your amiibo already contains data.
When you get a new battle card, you can view it by selecting the BATTLE CARDS option from the menu.
Deal more damage when attacking by accurately controlling the Circle Pad and the timing of your button presses.
Turn Order
Clear Kamek Duo in the Battle Ring.
Get an S Rating with Bowser Jr. Duo in the Battle Ring.
Get an Excellent with the Trio Kite Trio Attack.
Expert Balloon Blast
Hardworking Trio
Jumping
You made a duo card!
Tap the first amiibo on the Touch Screen.
Fire Mario Craft Rhythm
Leave it to Bowser to neglect basic bridge maintenance... You'll have to figure out another way into his castle.
You'll have to delete the game data using amiibo Settings within HOME Menu Settings.
To use a new card in battle, add it to one of your battle card sets.
The button you press depends on the attack. Be sure to check the explanation on the Touch Screen after choosing an attack.
Easy Attack Mode
Get an Excellent with the Trio Whirligig Trio Attack.
Paper Paragoomba Dodge
Expert Toad Trail
Tap the first amiibo on the NFC reader/writer.
New Item!
Where have you seen that strange symbol before? It must have been someplace dark and creepy, right? Maybe underground...
Your attacks are rated on 4 levels. The highest rating is Excellent, so aim for that!
To dash, jump with  (while moving or stationary) and hold it until you land.
Use character cards 10 times.
Defeat all enemies in 1 move as Luigi.
Get an Excellent with the Trio Shuriken Trio Attack.
Big Pokey Duo S Rating
Petey Piranha
Expert Mega Thwonk
To do a slide, press either , , or  while dashing.
Mario
All LV 1 character cards have been created for this amiibo. You cannot make any more LV 1 character cards.
Crowned with Glory
You befriended a slightly creased Paper Goomba. Maybe he can help you somehow...
Easy Mode
Slide the Circle Pad in the direction you want to dash, and then release .
Clear Chargin' Chuck Corps in the Battle Ring.
Use character cards 25 times.
Defeat all enemies in 1 move as Mario.
Get an Excellent with the Trio Meteor Trio Attack.
King Bob-omb S Rating
Shiny Enemy Hunter
If you're chasing someone, the best time to slide is when a ! appears over Mario's head.
Luigi
If you have created the same character card in 2 different character card sets, you can make a sparkle card!
You can even use an amiibo that has been registered with a different system! Please note that you'll be able to do this only once per day.
Your sparkle card hasn't been saved! If you exit now, it will revert to a regular character card.
All LV 2 character cards have been created for this amiibo. You cannot make any more LV 2 character cards.
Get Ready!
You tackled a whole team of Chargin' Chucks. Now ride that momentum all the way to Bowser's Castle!
You will continue dashing until you release the Circle Pad.
Dodge 5 Paper Bob-omb attacks in a row.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Bowser in the Battle Ring.
Use character cards 100 times.
Spiny Dodge
Shiny Enemy Destroyer
Fearless Warrior
Press  to refill HP and  to refill BP using items. (New Nintendo 3DS only)
Peach
Sorry—you've already made a sparkle card today. Please try again tomorrow.
Continue creating sparkle card? 
Yes
No
Sorry, you can't make a duo card using that amiibo. Try using another amiibo the next time you get a chance to create a duo card!
You Did It!
You made it back to Twinsy Tropics—only to find more paper terrain in your way. Well, you know how to deal with that, right?
Expert Challenges are special achievements that you complete by battling. Each one earns you points that you can spend on gear!
Shiny Enemy Obliterator
Be careful! If you don't have the right items, your HP and BP won't refill all the way.
Yoshi
To create a sparkle card, you need at least 1 character card registered to each compatible amiibo. Try making more character cards, and then give it another shot!
You've got Bowser's medallion... Now you just need to figure out where to put it. Explore the catacombs beneath Twinsy Tropics.
Everyone in your party has his own button for battle actions. You can control Mario with , Luigi with , and Paper Mario with .
View Expert Challenges by tapping the medal icon during battle or by opening the menu and selecting GUIDE.
Defeat all enemies in 1 move as Paper Mario.
Defeat a boss without using any wear.
Hammer Bro Dodge
Trampoline Challenge
Excellent Jump
Switch the action icon to the glove, and then press →→ to do Trio Grab.
Toad
You've already created a duo card using this amiibo. Try again with a different amiibo the next time you get a chance to make a duo card.
Select 10 battle cards to make a set.
Restore battle card set? If you select YES, your battle card set will revert to your most recent settings. Changes will not be saved.
Was Gloomy Woods always THIS gloomy? Hope Luigi's ready to see some ghosts...
Once it's your turn, choose a Command Block and take action.
A good strategy is to start on the Expert Challenges you think you can complete.
A new chapter has been added to the Battle Guide.
Defeat Papercraft Megacrinkle Goomba in the Battle Ring.
Defeat 8 or more enemies at once with a single battle card.
Chargin' Chucks Corps
When all three teammates are standing on each other's shoulders, press  to extend sideways.
Bowser
Tap an amiibo on the Touch Screen.
Luigi's on his own in Gloomy Woods! Come on, Luigi! Mario and Paper Mario are counting on you!
Find all of the Paper Toads!
Just before an enemy attacks, your characters will crouch in readiness if you can do a Jump Guard.
Slide the Circle Pad left or right to scroll through Command Blocks, and then press the active character's button to make your choice.
Take a look at it anytime by tapping the Battle Guide icon on the lower screen!
Defeat Papercraft Kamek in the Battle Ring.
Fire Bro Dodge 
Papercraft Bowser S Rating
Use this move to grab things and throw them, or use it to pull yourself over distances.
Tap an amiibo on the NFC reader/writer.
You rescued Mario! Now, where could they be keeping Paper Mario?
Explore Peach's Castle, and get ready for adventures in the Mushroom Kingdom! 
Press a character's button to make him jump. Time it right, and you can avoid taking damage.
Win battles by defeating all on-screen enemies. First, try attacking an enemy by choosing the Jump Block.
Defeat Papercraft Bowser Jr. in the Battle Ring.
Failed to write to the amiibo. Try again? 
Yes
No
Total number of blocks hit.
You scared off King Boo and got the trio back together! Now head for Mount Brrr.
Make your way through Sunbeam Plains. 
You can even deal damage to some enemies by landing on them. Timing is everything.
Get an A Rating on Trio Racquet in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating with King Boo in the Battle Ring.
Defeat Papercraft King Boo in the Battle Ring.
Select a ? Card, and confirm with .
That's the same amiibo you already tapped. Please tap a different amiibo.
and then press  to register it.
Dash across Sunbeam Plains, and get ready to face off against a familiar foe... 
Defeat Papercraft Bowser in the Battle Ring.
Cannonball Chuck A Rating
Paper Paratroopa Dodge
You can save your progress by tapping the SAVE button on the Touch Screen.
That's the same amiibo you already tapped. Please tap a different amiibo.
Bingo! There's the check mark.
Follow those Paper Toads! 
ドデカクラフトバトルの 「ドデカクラフトメドレー」を クリアしよう
Toad Trail S Rating
If your game ends for any reason, you can start over from the last place you saved.
Now you've got a full set of 10 battle cards again.
Visit the Lakitu Info Center in Sunbeam Plains. 
To save, first quit the quest and return to your previous location.
Defeat Big Pokey Duo in the Battle Ring.
Be sure to save frequently! There are lots of tough enemies out there...
All right. You got all of that?
Toadette's at work on something big. Help her along by rescuing more Paper Toads!
Go back to the spot in Sunbeam Plains where those Goombas stashed their papercraft. 
End quest? You will return to your previous location.
Each battle card has a special effect that can prove helpful in battle.
Dodge 5 Paper Koopa Troopa attacks in a row.
Use 10 battle cards with different effects in a single battle.
Tap this snazzy button right here!
Clear All
With the Paper Toads working on a way to get to Neo Bowser Castle, head out for another trip up Mount Brrr.
Head to Doop Doop Dunes. 
To use a battle card, you need Star Points, which you gain by pulling off successful attacks.
Dashing
Get an A Rating on Trio Whirligig in Attackathon.
Get an A Rating on Mega Thwonk in Attackathon.
Dodge 5 Buzzy Beetle attacks in a row.
Excellent Bros.
Rate of Excellent Actions
And look at that. This thing is filled with helpful tools.
Randomly Assign Set
What have the Paper Toads built to help you in your quest? And what awaits on the top of Mount Brrr?
Chase Nabbit through Doop Doop Dunes, and then make your way toward Bowser's Castle. 
Use a Trio Attack to turn enemies to paper and then attack them with all of your characters!
You can use a battle card once you collect the number of Star Points written on that card.
Get an S Rating with Big Pokey Duo in the Battle Ring.
Clear Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Ninji Dodge
Paper Goomba Dodge
Dodge Success Rate
If you don't want to think about it too much, just press RANDOMLY ASSIGN SET.
And you'll be all set, just like that! Heh, all SET. ...Get it? That was totally on purpose.
This is it! Three heroes, two villains, and a whole lot of paper cuts. Can you defeat both the Bowsers?
Make your way toward Bowser's Castle. 
Complete a Trio Attack to deal a lot of damage!
To earn Star Points more quickly, get the best ratings possible on solo attacks. Use Bros. and Trio Attacks for even more Star Points.
Clear Paper Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Defeat 3 shiny enemies.
Paper Dry Bones Dodge
Expert Challenges Finished
you can always hit this button to go back to the way things were.
Bowser burned all of your papercrafts! But it sounds like Toadette has something amazing in store.
Each Trio Attack consumes BP. Use items like Syrup Jars to recover BP.
Collect a total of 2,000 coins.
Defeat 50 shiny enemies.
Monty Mole Dodge
Paper Petey Piranha S Rating
To use items that you've collected, go to the menu and select ITEMS.
Battle Cards Collected
And you can clear EVERYTHING out with this button.
You collected all of the ore that Toadette needed! Now, make your way back to the upper level of Neo Bowser Castle...
Dodge 5 Spiny attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Paper Spike attacks in a row.
Get an Excellent with the 3D Red Shell Bros. Attack.
Collect a total of 12,000 coins.
Defeat 100 shiny enemies.
Paper Shy Guy Dodge
Rampaging Wiggler S Rating
You can use items to recover HP or BP before heading into battle.
Tap the amiibo on the Touch Screen.
Block Recovery Rate
Whoa! What time is it? I've been talking for way too long.
I just love battle cards... *sigh*
You destroyed Papercraft Bowser! But what happened to the path? You'll need to find another way to get to the Bowsers.
Get an Excellent with the Fire Flower Bros. Attack.
Collect a total of 30,000 coins.
Paper Bob-omb Dodge
Some items can be used only during battle. Check your inventory frequently!
If you quit, your sparkle card data will be lost. Are you sure you want to quit? 
No
Yes
Tap the amiibo on the NFC reader/writer.
Paper Toads Rescued
The path to Bowser and Paper Bowser is open. It's time to settle this once and for all!
Get an Excellent with the Rocket Blast Bros. Attack.
Excellent Trio
You don't have any ? Cards. To create a character card, you need a ? Card.
You can buy ? Cards from the Toad in front of the counter in certain card shops!
You'll also occasionally get ? Cards by defeating certain enemies in battle or by progressing through the story.
Good-Bye Sadness
Item Patches Drilled
Randomly assign battle cards to this set?
You'll need even more Paper Toads to field a papercraft of your own. Keep looking!
Learn about game basics and Trio Moves.
To begin, move the target using the Circle Pad.
Get an Excellent with the Drill Shell Bros. Attack.
Pokey Dodge
What Happens Next?
Beans Recovered
You rescued enough Paper Toads to build a papercraft of your own.
Saving. Don't turn off the power.
Display status without gear equipped:
Targeted Character
Press either Mario's or Luigi's button to throw the boomerang at your target.
Get an Excellent with the Bomb Derby Bros. Attack.
Big Tail Goomba Dodge
Mechakoopa Dodge
Character Movement
Trio Glider
Just Passing Time
Whew! You beat the Megacrinkle Goomba! But there's no rest for the awesome—those princesses aren't going to rescue themselves.
Save complete. Press  to return to the HOME Menu.
View Expert Challenges and your completion rate.
Jump Guard
Sometimes you need to aim for an enemy, and other times you need to aim for an object. Calmly move your target and fire away!
Get an Excellent with the Dropchopper Bros. Attack.
Koopa Troopa Dodge
A Painful Blow
Character Buttons
No owner has been registered for this amiibo. To create a character card set, first register an owner for your amiibo.
Do It Now!
Make your way to the top of Mount Brrr. 
Hammer Guard
Get an Excellent with the Cannonball Chuck Bros. Attack.
Defeat 20 enemies with counterattacks.
Defeat 10 paper enemies with fire.
With max copies, get an Excellent with Paper Mario's Jump attack.
A More Painful Blow
Control Mario's actions with , Luigi's with , and Paper Mario's with .
Character Buttons
Register an owner? 
No
Yes
Failed to write to the amiibo. Try again? 
Yes
No
Bowser's Coming!
There's Nabbit again! Don't let him get away with any more of your stuff! Oh, and make your way toward Bowser's Castle.
Visit the Lakitu Info Center in Mount Brrr's Toad Village. 
Airplane Guard
Get an Excellent with the Balloon Blast Bros. Attack.
Defeat 200 enemies with counterattacks.
Defeat 50 paper enemies with fire.
Paper Boomerang Bro Dodge
Chargin' Chucks Corps S Rating
An Even More Painful Blow
Items
Sorry—registration failed. Please try again.
Now's your chance to make a duo card! Simply tap the compatible amiibo of a different character to the Touch Screen or NFC area.
You can even use an amiibo without any character card sets registered to it.
If you don't have a different amiibo, you can cancel by pressing .
Respect Your Elders
You got a new Bros. Attack! But Nabbit escaped again...
Keep traversing Mount Brrr. If you're looking for a shortcut, try visiting the Lakitu Info Center... 
Read a short recap, and view your current objective.
Boomerang Guard
Dodge 5 Cheep Cheep attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Paper Spear Guy attacks in a row.
Get an Excellent with the Toad Trail Bros. Attack.
Defeat 400 enemies with counterattacks.
Defeat 120 paper enemies with fire.
Beginner Sidestepper
Expert Trio Racquet
Gear
Trio Drill
Switch the action icon to the hammer, and then press →→ to use Trio Hammer.
You've already created a character card set. Now you can make character cards using the Make a Card menu!
Whispered Secrets
You just learned Trio Hammer! Now put it to good use and SMASH!
Follow the Bowser Jrs.! Where will they take the princesses next? 
Get an S Rating on Trio Racquet in Attackathon.
Get an Excellent with the Mega Thwonk Bros. Attack.
Advanced Sidestepper
Expert Trio Kite
Saving
Use Trio Hammer to destroy large objects or flip things over.
Peach's Castle Theme
Whoops. Those Pokeys are no joke. You'll have to find a way to get past them...
Make your way through Doop Doop Dunes to Twinsy Tropics. 
Wielding hammers during an enemy's attack is a sign that your party can do a Hammer Guard.
After all Bros. Attacks have been unlocked, get an Excellent with each at least once.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Kamek in the Battle Ring.
Cannonball Chuck S Rating
Card Beginner
Master Sidestepper
Expert Trio Whirligig
Map
Springtime Breeze
You rescued a whole bunch of Paper Toads! But it looks like you'll need about 8 more if you want them to build something amazing...
Find the pipe leading to the Twinsy Tropics underground. 
Duo cards function the same way as character cards but feature 2 different characters on a single card.
You can practice a selected attack or view a demo by tapping the appropriate button on the lower screen.
Ready a character's hammer by pressing and holding the corresponding button.
Clear Bowser Jr. Duo in the Battle Ring.
Clear King Boo in the Battle Ring.
Card Veteran
Flicker
Expert Trio Shuriken
Recovering HP and BP
Uh-Oh, Sand Flow!
You got something to help you jump really high! Maybe that could get you past those darn Pokeys...
Figure out a way to get inside Bowser's Castle. 
To create one, you'll need 2 different compatible amiibo.
Watching the demo will help you learn how to time your actions during the attack.
When the enemy closes in, release the button to swing the hammer forward.
Jump Guard
Dodge 5 Ninji attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Shy Guy attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Paper Goomba attacks in a row.
Kamek Duo S Rating
Card Master
Blaze
Expert Trio Meteor
Paper Toad Rescue
Delete this file?
Make your way through Bowser's Castle in pursuit of the Bowser Jrs.! 
If you see a message reading "NOW'S YOUR CHANCE!" while making a regular character card, you can make a duo card!
In Practice mode, you can try out the attack for yourself. Hone your skills before facing off against real enemies!
Paper Mario's copies will all take a swing when you use his hammer.
Emergency Block
You can check up on the status of any of your characters via the menu.
Defeat a boss without using any items.
Paper Boo Dodge
Stargazer
Wildfire
Character Movement
Remove the amiibo from the Touch Screen to stop the roulette.
Not Enough Battle Cards
Deleted game data can't be recovered. Do you want to continue?
Head back to Peach's Castle. 
Remove the first amiibo you tapped from the NFC area temporarily, and prepare an amiibo of a different character.
The Hint Block will appear while battling in Easy Mode or if your party is defeated and needs to restart a battle.
There are 6 areas to watch: HP, BP, POW, DEF, SPEED, and STACHE.
Get an S Rating on Trio Whirligig in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating on Mega Thwonk in Attackathon.
Dodge 5 attacks in a row from either Chain Chomps or Paper Chain Chomps or both.
Papercraft Kamek S Rating
Character Card Beginner
Super Luigi!
Deleting game data.
Make your way through Gloomy Woods. 
You can even use an amiibo that hasn't been registered or set up with a character card set. No data will be written to the second amiibo.
The Hint Block will give you hints about how to battle or the quirks of a particular enemy.
HP is your health. Your characters lose HP when enemies land attacks, and if it reaches 0, they will faint.
Biddybud Dodge
Dodge Apprentice
Character Card Veteran
Super Mario!
Copy this file?
　
Tap the second compatible amiibo and follow the on-screen prompts to proceed.
You won't lose a turn when you use the Hint Block, so read as many hints as you like!
BP stands for Bros. Points. You spend Bros. Points every time you use a Bros. Attack or a Trio Attack.
After all Trio Attacks have been unlocked, get an Excellent with each at least once.
Dodge Enthusiast
Character Card Master
There's already game data saved in File 2. Do you want to overwrite it with the game data in File 1?
Assuming both amiibo are compatible, you will create a powerful and rare duo card!
A red outline indicates the target of an enemy's attack.
POW is your attack power. The higher the number, the more damage you can deal.
Get an A Rating on Toad Trail in Attackathon.
Dodge 5 Horned Ant Trooper attacks in a row.
Trio Shuriken A Rating
Dodge Master
Welcome to the menu! Glorious, isn't it? Let me give you a little tour.
Total number of item patches discovered.
There's already game data saved in File 1. Do you want to overwrite it with the game data in File 2?
Once you've registered your amiibo and created at least 1 character card, you're ready to use that card in battle!
A dotted white line indicates a character who may or may not be attacked.
DEF is your defensive power. The higher the number, the less damage you'll take.
Paper Hammer Bro Dodge
King Bob-omb
Rampaging Wiggler
Super Paper Mario!
Hammer
You need to update your NFC reader/writer to proceed. 
Quit
Update
First off is the Items area.
From here, you can do things like use a mushroom to recover.
Data that is overwritten cannot be recovered. Do you want to continue?
The game data is corrupted and must be deleted. Delete corrupted data and create new data? 
No
Yes
Simply press CHARACTER CARD in battle, tap your amiibo, and select a card!
When you see a dotted white line, watch the enemy's movement to see who the real target is.
SPEED is how fast you can act. The higher the number, the more attacks and actions you can perform in a battle.
Dodge 5 Mechakoopa attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Fly Guy attacks in a row.
The amiibo data is being restored. Do not remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
Where's Toad?
Next up, we have the Gear section, where you can change and upgrade your gear.
Copying the file...
You sailed to Sunbeam Plains with plenty of Toads in tow. Now make it the rest of the way to Peach's Castle on foot.
Creating new game data. Please wait.
Please note that you must register an amiibo before using it on your system.
There's always a telltale sign in the enemy's actions before it attacks.
When you win a battle, all of your characters will earn EXP. When a character has earned enough EXP, his level will go up.
STACHE measures how luxuriant and robust your mustache is. Higher numbers mean more Lucky Hits and more items from enemies.
Bully Dodge
Do It Yourself
Sorry—recovery of the amiibo data has failed.
View character cards.
Destination Unknown
Check the Status section to see detailed info about each party member.
Game data has been deleted.
Our princess is in another...prison? Bowser Jr. and Paper Bowser Jr. have taken both of the princesses on an unexpected mountain retreat.
Press  to return to the HOME Menu, and then close the game.
Hide status without gear equipped:
If you need a little help, turn Assist on. That way, you can always see which of your characters will be attacked next.
Choose Hammer to deal damage to an enemy by smashing it.
Easy Attack Mode
As your characters level up, they'll gain more HP and their attacks will deal more damage to enemies.
Dodge 5 Paper Swoop attacks in a row.
Get an S Rating with Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Papercraft Megacrinkle Goomba
The amiibo data has been restored successfully.
Create a character card using a ? Card.
Mixed-Up Scramble
Moving on to the guide...
Restore battle card set to previous arrangement, and exit the menu?
Our heroes arrived at beautiful Gloomy Woods. There's no time to enjoy the scenery, though, as they must hurry through the forest on their way to Mount Brrr.
The Game Card has been removed. Press  to return to the HOME Menu.
Turn Assist on or off by pressing START when it's your turn to select a Command Block.
Use the hammer to attack enemies that you can't stomp, like ones with spikes.
Battle Basics ①: Command Blocks
If you're having a hard time with a strong enemy, try battling some weaker enemies first to level up your characters.
Dodge 5 Bully attacks in a row.
Use Bros. Attacks 3 times.
Papercraft Kamek
Select a ? Card.
Communication with the NFC reader/writer failed. Please turn the NFC reader/writer off and try again.
Attempt sparkle card creation.
Come On!
If you have any questions about, well, anything, you should check this out.
It's packed with all kinds of useful information!
Paper Kamek blocked your path! How will you ever move forward?
　
Battle Basics ①: Command Blocks
After leveling up a few times, you'll eventually rank up and earn the chance to select a Rank- Up Bonus.
Use Bros. Attacks 50 times.
Win 10 battles, avoiding enemy attacks with Assist turned off.
Papercraft Bowser Jr.
Write character card information.
Update of the NFC reader/writer failed.
Learn more about how to use character cards.
Big Bang!
Actually, it's not a bad idea to read through it before setting out!
Wiggler sure has a big appetite for adventure. Keep making your way toward Mount Brrr!
Battle Basics ②: Dealing Damage
Choose wisely—you'll receive only a limited number of Rank-Up Bonuses throughout the course of the game.
Use Bros. Attacks 150 times.
Win 100 battles, avoiding enemy attacks with Assist turned off.
Papercraft King Boo
Switch the action icon to the drill—then press →→ to dig into the ground with Trio Drill.
Writing character card information.
A communications error has occurred. Please turn your system off and try again.
If this doesn't resolve the issue, please contact Nintendo Customer Service, listed in your system's operations manual.
Register your amiibo to begin using character cards.
Double Bowsers!
And that ends our little tour of the menu.
When you want to exit the menu, press .
/ View battle cards in this set.
Mario and company chased off Kamek. Is Mount Brrr straight up ahead?
To create a character card, you'll need a ? Card.
Battle Basics ③: Watch Your HP!
Dodge 5 Paper Fire Piranha Plant attacks in a row.
Win 200 battles, avoiding enemy attacks with Assist turned off.
Papercraft Bowser
Cardsharp
While underground, hold and then release  to do a drill dash.
The character card information has been written.
Communication with the NFC reader/writer failed.
Please turn the NFC reader/writer off and try again.
If this doesn't resolve the issue, please contact Nintendo Customer Service, listed in your system's operations manual.
Final Battle
Wiggler has sprouted wings! After eating that much, it only makes sense... Anyway, to Mount Brrr! Princess Peach is waiting!
There are two ways you can earn ? Cards.
Battle Basics ③: Watch Your HP!
You can enable Easy Attack Mode to make Bros. Attacks easier to pull off.
Get an S Rating with King Bob-omb in the Battle Ring.
Boomerang Bro Dodge
Paper Koopa Troopa Dodge
Boss Medley
メドレーをクリア！
Wild Card
Trio Drill will also let you excavate buried objects and climb walls.
Create amiibo duo battle card.
Sorry—that amiibo isn't supported in this game.
Getting Stronger
You made it to Mount Brrr...and it really lives up to its name. Stomp through the snow, and make your way to the princesses.
Turning Easy Mode on makes your characters stronger and enemies easier to defeat. However, you won't be able to complete Expert Challenges in this mode.
You can buy them from the Toad standing in front of the counter at a card shop. Or you can occasionally score one after beating an enemy.
If you take damage from an enemy's attack, your character's HP will decrease. If it reaches 0, your character will faint.
Battle Basics ④: Getting Stronger
Easy Attack Mode slows down attacks and makes them less difficult to complete in exchange for costing a little more BP.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft King Boo in the Battle Ring.
Earn 7 Star Points in a single battle.
Win 50 battles in a row without fleeing.
Spike Dodge 
Boss Medley S Rating
Swing the hammer by selecting the hammer action icon and pressing .
Sorry—the amiibo data is corrupted.
Soldiers Marching
You learned a new Trio Move, Trio Drill! Use it to navigate the puzzles of Mount Brrr!
If Paper Mario has any copies, he loses them instead of HP when attacked.
If Mario, Luigi, and Paper Mario all reach 0 HP, the game will end.
Battle Basics ④: Getting Stronger
You'll still deal full damage, however, so give it a try if there's an attack you're not totally familiar with yet.
Dodge 5 Paper Boo attacks in a row.
Try using the hammer in unexpected ways. You never know what you might unlock!
Sorry—duo card creation failed.
Attack and Run!
The Bowser Jrs. have a formidable new papercraft! If only Mario and crew had one of their own...
Not to worry! You can restart the battle from the beginning or restore from your last save point. Be careful out there!
Battle Basics ⑤: Status
To enable Easy Attack Mode, press  when selecting an attack.
Finish a single battle using only Jump attacks that are Excellent.
Paper Spiny Dodge
You've unlocked all the amiibo battle cards for this amiibo!
If your HP is getting low or one of your characters faints, select the Item Block and use an item to help him recover.
Easy Mode
Dodge 5 Hammer Bro attacks in a row.
Dodge enemy attacks 20 times.
Double Chain Chomp Dodge
Lucky Star
Wow! You've unlocked all character cards for this amiibo!
If you cancel, the character card information and your ? Card will be lost. Are you sure you want to cancel? 
No
Yes
Mushrooms can restore a character's HP.
Dodge enemy attacks 100 times.
Papercraft King Boo S Rating
Lucky Superstar
Trio Grab
This card will be transformed into a character card.
Register amiibo and create a character card set? 
No
Yes
No defensive items equipped.
Toads rescued:
You can use amiibo (sold separately) to create character cards—special cards that can help you defeat enemies in battle.
1-Up Mushrooms can revive a character who has fainted.
Dodge 5 Fire Bro attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Sombrero Guy attacks in a row.
Dodge enemy attacks 200 times.
Lucky Megastar
A number of hysterical Paper Toads are scattered throughout the Mushroom Kingdom.
You can use Toad, Bowser, Mario, Luigi, Peach, and Yoshi amiibo to make character cards!
You can buy items from a shop or earn them by defeating enemies. Make sure you have enough before you head into battle!
Move left and right using the Circle Pad, and try to anticipate where the cannonball will land. Press  to bounce it when it lands.
Horned Ant Trooper Dodge
By helping rescue them, you'll advance the story.
Each amiibo can produce a wide variety of character cards, each with its own design and effect in battle.
Each character has his own button to get the action started. Press  for Mario and  for Luigi.
Don't like the way a battle is going? Select the Flee Block to escape. But use it sparingly—you won't earn any coins or experience by fleeing.
If you can keep the cannonball bouncing, it will eventually bounce back onto your enemies and deal damage to them.
Get an A Rating on Cannonball Chuck in Attackathon.
Avoid an enemy attack during a Trampoline Guard.
Excellent Trio Racquet
Visit the Lakitu Info Center to see if there are any Paper Toads currently in need of rescuing.
Look at that! A whole new icon. You guys owe me big-time.
Anyway, just tap here when you want to edit your battle card sets.
　
When it's one of your characters' turns, select a Command Block and then press that character's button to take action.
Get an S Rating on Toad Trail in Attackathon.
Trio Shuriken S Rating
Copy x 20
Excellent Trio Kite
Remember, you can visit any Lakitu Info Center to access Paper Toad Rescue quests.
So this is where the magic happens.
You can hold down  while a character's being attacked to reduce the amount of damage he takes.
You can scroll through the Command Blocks by sliding left or right on the Circle Pad.
Progress:
Copy x 100
Excellent Trio Whirligig
Team Jump
Break Time? Hey, feel like taking a quick break? The game will still be waiting for you when you get back. Promise.
Up here is the battle card set you just used to wreck those Hammer Bros.
Ooh, that rotten Paper Goomba tricked you! But at least you got that strange medallion back.
Getting Started
It's always better to dodge an enemy's attack completely, so use Emergency Block as a last resort.
To win the battle, you must defeat all of the enemies on the screen. First, try attacking using the Jump Block.
Counterattack Apprentice
Copy x 200
Excellent Trio Shuriken
Your character card hasn't been saved! If you exit now, it will turn back into a ? Card.
All right! Back down here! Here's where you can see all your cards up close.
You got the medallion back and unlocked the door, only to find an impassable wall. Maybe one of your new abilities could help...
Registering amiibo
If you're having a hard time dodging an attack, that's when Emergency Block comes in handy.
Counterattack Enthusiast
Excellent Trio Meteor
Continue creating the character card? 
Continue
Exit
Cards that are registered to a set have a check mark right here.
You unlocked a mysterious door but found your way blocked yet again. Can you crack the code to Bowser's Castle?
How to Get ? Cards
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the 3D Red Shell Bros. Attack.
Cheep Cheep Dodge
Counterattack Master
Check out the Touch Screen for a map of your current location in the Mushroom Kingdom.
Sorry, you can't make a duo card using an amiibo of the same character. Try again with a different amiibo the next time you get a chance to make a duo card.
Let's try switching out this card for another one.
First, remove it from the set.
You made it to Bowser's Castle! The princesses are waiting—keep up the good work!
Creating a Character Card
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Fire Flower Bros. Attack.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Trio Racquet Trio Attack.
Bowser Jr. Duo S Rating
Fresh Start
To zoom in or out, tap once anywhere on the Touch Screen.
Tap the second amiibo on the Touch Screen.
See how the check mark disappeared?
Now check out the top screen.
You unlocked Trio Glider! Use it to avoid the lava as you infiltrate Bowser's Castle.
Using Character Cards
If you need a little help pulling off Bros. Attacks or Trio Attacks, try Easy Attack Mode.
Dodge 5 Paper Dry Bones attacks in a row.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Rocket Blast Bros. Attack.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Trio Kite Trio Attack.
Paper Fire Piranha Plant Dodge
Paper Ninji Dodge
Head Start
To move around within the map, tap and drag on the Touch Screen.
Tap the second amiibo on the NFC reader/writer.
Removing that card opened up a spot. So let's register a new one in its place!
Cards collected:
Gear will be removed.
You destroyed Papercraft King Boo! Keep exploring Bowser's Castle—Toadette and the princesses await!
Viewing Character Cards
Select the card you want to use by tapping on it. Tap the card again to use it.
You'll use more BP, but the attacks will be slowed down and easier to complete.
Points:
Get an S Rating with Rampaging Wiggler in the Battle Ring.
Get an S Rating with Paper Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Drill Shell Bros. Attack.
Use 10 battle cards in a single battle.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Trio Whirligig Trio Attack.
Flying Start
You can also navigate the map using the C Stick. (New Nintendo 3DS only)
Select a card using the Circle Pad...
Change Set has been added! Now you can make up to 3 battle card sets.
To use it, just press the MANAGE button and select CHANGE SET.
Woo-hoo! You saved Toadette! Now all that's standing between you and the princesses is hundreds of terrifying enemies!
Duo Cards
You'll spend the number of Star Points written on the battle card when you use it.
You'll still deal just as much damage, so don't hesitate to use this mode when you're having a hard time completing a specific attack.
Dodge 5 Paper Shy Guy attacks in a row.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Bomb Derby Bros. Attack.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Trio Shuriken Trio Attack.
Paper Scaredy Rat Dodge
Sorry—you don't have any character cards that can be upgraded to sparkle cards right now.
You found the princesses AND both Bowser Jrs.—for about 30 seconds. Catch those Bowser Jrs., and save the princesses anew!
Sparkle Cards
Paper Mario can make copies of himself to amplify his solo attacks.
Once you use a battle card, it will be discarded.
To use Easy Attack Mode, first enable Easy Mode from the menu. Then press  before you select an attack.
Dodge 5 Paper Spiny attacks in a row.
Dodge 5 Paper Fuzzy attacks in a row.
ドデカクラフトバトルの 「ドデカクラフトメドレー」でSランクを
と
取
ろう
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Dropchopper Bros. Attack.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Trio Meteor Trio Attack.
3 Birds with 1 Stone
You saved the princesses! But now Bowser has your book AND a giant floating castle equipped with cannons. What to do...
The more copies, the more damage!
Once all of your cards have been discarded, they'll be reshuffled and available to use again.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Cannonball Chuck Bros. Attack.
10 Birds with 1 Stone
Create a character card set.
Start of the Adventure
Paper characters have flown out of a mysterious book in Peach's Castle! Cue our heroes, Mario and Luigi!
Oh no! The Bowsers destroyed Peach's Castle! Are the Toads OK?
Once you have 3 battle cards, you won't be dealt any more unless you use or discard at least 1.
Dodge 5 Pokey attacks in a row.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Balloon Blast Bros. Attack.
15 Birds with 1 Stone
Item-Free Victory
If you find or purchase new gear, you'll need to equip it to begin using it.
Creating a character card set.
Roll Credits (Long Version)
Mario and Luigi set off to help their paper pals get back home.
Choose the battle card to discard, and then tap FLIP OVER.
Dodge 5 Sandmaargh attacks in a row.
Get 5 Excellents in a row with the Toad Trail Bros. Attack.
Trump Card
Go to the menu and tap GEAR to equip new weapons, apparel, and more.
Remove the amiibo from the Touch Screen.
Character card set created!
Our Story Begins
The two Bowsers had a meeting of the minds...and fists. Nothing good can come of that...
Find a way to get past those Pokeys! 
Learn about different attacks and battle strategies.
