If you hit all the Dash Panels, you'll have a chance to smash a big target at the end for even more points.
メドレーでＳランク！
If you miss a Dash Panel or run into a Thwomp, your run will end.
Get an S Rating with Chargin' Chuck Corps in the Battle Ring.
Defeat 2 Goombas and 2 Paper Goombas.
King Boo S Rating
Pick up bonus points along the way by smashing the smaller targets. How many can you hit?
Trio Racquet A Rating
Use the Circle Pad to aim for the falling cards, and then throw shuriken using  and .
Get an S Rating on Cannonball Chuck in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Megacrinkle Goomba in the Battle Ring.
Paper Petey Piranha
As your shuriken hits the card, press  to rip through it and earn points.
Big Pokey Duo
Just Getting Started
Cards with an M icon can be scored only by Mario, and ones with an L icon can be scored only by Luigi.
Hitting a card with a POW Block icon will score all of the cards on the screen at once. Cards with the clock icon will stop time briefly.
Get an S Rating with Kamek Duo in the Battle Ring.
Trio Whirligig A Rating
Mega Thwonk A Rating
Hitting a card with a Bowser icon is the same as letting a card fall to the ground.
Megacrinkle Goomba S Rating
In between rounds, giant enemies will appear. You get only one shot, so try to hit as many as you can!
Aim carefully! If 3 cards hit the ground, the game will end.
Hit targets with the ball to score points. Use , , and  to swing your rackets.
Excellent Attacks
Pay attention to the targets you're hitting! The ball will slow down if you hit a Cheep Cheep, and it will speed up if you hit a Ninji.
Get an A Rating on Trio Shuriken in Attackathon.
Clear King Bob-omb in the Battle Ring.
Clear Rampaging Wiggler in the Battle Ring.
Times Hit by Enemies
Watch out! If you hit a Boo, the ball will disappear completely!
Times Boss Moved
Number of Items Used
Times Fainted
King Boo
??????
Clear Boss Medley in the Battle Ring.
Trio Racquet S Rating
Kamek Duo
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Bowser Jr. in the Battle Ring.
Bowser Jr. Duo
???
Trio Whirligig S Rating
Mega Thwonk S Rating
Papercraft Bowser Jr. S Rating
Get an S Rating on Boss Medley in the Battle Ring.
Toad Trail A Rating
Get an S Rating on Trio Shuriken in Attackathon.
Petey Piranha S Rating
Clear Kamek Duo in the Battle Ring.
Get an S Rating with Bowser Jr. Duo in the Battle Ring.
Papercraft Battle Rules
Big Pokey Duo S Rating
Petey Piranha
Clear Chargin' Chuck Corps in the Battle Ring.
King Bob-omb S Rating
You'll receive a score based on your clear time, damage taken, and successful attacks.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Bowser in the Battle Ring.
You can't use normal items, but certain unique items will be available. However, the more of them you use, the lower your score will be!
Assist and Easy Mode are not available in the Battle Ring. If you have them turned on, they will automatically be turned off.
You can end the battle at any time by selecting FLEE.
Defeat Papercraft Megacrinkle Goomba in the Battle Ring.
Chargin' Chucks Corps
Defeat Papercraft Kamek in the Battle Ring.
Papercraft Bowser S Rating
Defeat Papercraft Bowser Jr. in the Battle Ring.
Press  each time one of Luigi's feet touches the ground. You'll score points and build power with each successful foot strike.
Get an A Rating on Trio Racquet in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating with King Boo in the Battle Ring.
Defeat Papercraft King Boo in the Battle Ring.
As you approach a fortress, press  to swing Luigi's hammer. If you've built up enough power, you'll destroy it and move on.
Defeat Papercraft Bowser in the Battle Ring.
Cannonball Chuck A Rating
Watch out for mud puddles! The timing of Luigi's footsteps will slow down.
ドデカクラフトバトルの 「ドデカクラフトメドレー」を クリアしよう
Toad Trail S Rating
Petey Piranha
セーブ
ちゅう
中
です 
でんげん
電源
をOFFにしないでください。
When enemies appear, press  at the right time to avoid them.
Defeat Big Pokey Duo in the Battle Ring.
Big Pokey Duo
セーブが
お
終
わりました を
お
押
すとHOMEメニューに
もど
戻
ります
The game ends if you run into an enemy or fail to destroy a fortress.
Paper Petey Piranha
Get an A Rating on Trio Whirligig in Attackathon.
Get an A Rating on Mega Thwonk in Attackathon.
Rampaging Wiggler
Get an S Rating with Big Pokey Duo in the Battle Ring.
Clear Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Chargin' Chuck Corps
Press  to begin swinging the cannonball, and then press  again to release it. You'll get 5 tries to pop as many balloons as possible.
Battle Ring Rules
Clear Paper Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Bowser Jr. Duo
Use the Circle Pad to aim the cannonball in the air, and aim for the flying balloons to increase your score multiplier.
Paper Petey Piranha S Rating
King Boo
Watch out for the Parabombs, and be sure to correct for wind. If you miss the target completely, the game will end.
Rampaging Wiggler S Rating
King Bob-omb
Kamek Duo
Boss Medley
Saving. Don't turn off the power.
Papercraft Megacrinkle Goomba
Save complete. Press  to return to the HOME Menu.
Papercraft Kamek
Collect the spiraling cards by sliding left and right on the Circle Pad. Then press  to rip through the paper barriers and move on.
Papercraft Bowser Jr.
Look out for cards with star icons to earn the most points!
Papercraft King Boo
If you miss 3 cards, the game will end.
Chargin' Chucks Corps S Rating
Papercraft Bowser
Avoid the whirlwind—it will blow away all of the cards you've collected. And if you hit a Fire Bar, your game will go up in smoke!
Papercraft Medley
Get an S Rating on Trio Racquet in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating against Papercraft Kamek in the Battle Ring.
Cannonball Chuck S Rating
Clear Bowser Jr. Duo in the Battle Ring.
Clear King Boo in the Battle Ring.
Times Attempted
Kamek Duo S Rating
Try again?
???
Get an S Rating on Trio Whirligig in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating on Mega Thwonk in Attackathon.
Papercraft Kamek S Rating
???
Get an A Rating on Toad Trail in Attackathon.
Trio Shuriken A Rating
King Bob-omb
Rampaging Wiggler
The game data is corrupted and must be deleted. Delete corrupted data and create new data? 
No
Yes
Creating new game data. Please wait.
Press  to return to the HOME Menu, and then close the game.
Get an S Rating with Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
Papercraft Megacrinkle Goomba
The Game Card has been removed. Press  to return to the HOME Menu.
Papercraft Kamek
Papercraft Bowser Jr.
Papercraft King Boo
Papercraft Bowser
Get an S Rating with King Bob-omb in the Battle Ring.
Boss Medley
メドレーをクリア！
Get an S Rating against Papercraft King Boo in the Battle Ring.
Boss Medley S Rating
Clear Time
Damage Taken
You'll receive a score based on your clear time, damage taken, and success at Papercraft Charge Spots.
Charge Spot Success
The less damage you take and the faster you finish the battle, the higher your rating will be.
Papercraft King Boo S Rating
Your accuracy at Papercraft Charge Spots also counts. Stay in the groove!
Get an A Rating on Cannonball Chuck in Attackathon.
Get an S Rating on Toad Trail in Attackathon.
Trio Shuriken S Rating
Bowser Jr. Duo S Rating
Get an S Rating with Rampaging Wiggler in the Battle Ring.
Get an S Rating with Paper Petey Piranha in the Battle Ring.
ドデカクラフトバトルの 「ドデカクラフトメドレー」でSランクを
と
取
ろう
Use the Circle Pad to help Mario and Luigi navigate along the path. Be sure to press forward at all times!
You can jump over gaps in the path by pressing .
At the end of the line, you'll have a chance to speed up even more by passing over several Dash Panels.
