Basics #2: Damage and Defeat Foes
Big Boo
When Fawful Guy attacks with an umbrella, the timing for his attacks change, so check to see whether he opens an umbrella before attacking.
If Luigi is sucked in, you can rescue him by defeating the Junker Can with Luigi inside.
Hints for Health
Press  right as your trooper strikes their enemy.
First Officers can use First Officer Skills if you place them in the tile above the Captain.
Clear all quests
Broque Madame's Secret
Two Castles
MORTON CRUSH FAKE MORTON!
Sweet!
Enemies who have been poisoned with Malatone Formula:X are immune to the Deny command, and will also charge directly at your squad captain!
It might be a good time to experiment with Ludwig's Stop and Drop command...or any other commands that you don't normally use...
You could be a star!
OK.
Bulky blokes with high POW and HP. They can sweep up foes by spinning their tails.
Trick Star
You can view challenge details in the Challenges section of the Records menu.
Four Marios and Luigis enter eight barrels. Take a good look and remember who's in which barrel at the start!
The Koopa Troopas will speed up and increase in number, so try to move Bowser quickly to knock them all into enemies.
Attacking with JUMP
Shroob
Defeating Junker Cans will only bring out more of them. Just get rid of a few so you can focus your attacks on Junker!
Activating Bonus Skills will increase the attributes of units going into battle.
Perform all group attacks
Like Father, Like Son
Yeah, boss. Those things are fakes. Let's wreck 'em!
And, naturally, the more like units you have, the stronger the group attack will be.
's POW increased!
Be careful not to attack with a jump by mistake!
Speed. The higher your SPEED, the earlier you attack in battle.
A mysterious creature from the Beanbean Kingdom. Rocket Headbutt is its specialty, and it despises Spear Guys.
Green Para-Biddybuds that fly through the air. Their specialty is Stomp.
Whackrobat
Metal Mawful Mole
Each time your rank goes up, you can select a rank-up bonus that will enhance some of your characters' attributes.
To fire the cannon, press  when a barrel with Mario in it aims at an enemy, or  when a barrel with Luigi in it does the same.
Pwallop
Battle Basics and Battle Actions
Hold down  during enemy attacks to guard. This will decrease the amount of damage you receive.
A bean that gives 10 EXP to Ranged troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Junker Cans close their lids if they see you getting ready to use your Hammer. Wait until they get right up next to you so you can get an attack in before the lid closes.
Glam Lakitu can be sucked up using Vacuum. He tosses both coins and Spiny Eggs, so be careful about which ones you try to collect!
You can avoid one type of Tenderling attack by jumping, and the other by standing still. Watch carefully to determine what you should do each time!
A command that Morton can use. He will act as Bowser Jr.'s shield for a limited time, taking enemy damage on his behalf.
Perform all commands
Ludwig's Hunch
A Traitor's Fate
Magikoopa (White)
Duh! My Mechakoopas are the best!
The great and beloved king of the Minions! Father of Bowser Jr. He possesses more charisma and destructive power than a trillion Marios.
DEF Up
Ringsleader
Massage Broque Madame using the Bob-omb Blitz Bros. Attack with up to three fails. If you get a gold medal, you'll win a special item!
ALL
Watch and Learn
Mario and Luigi lose HP when they are damaged by attacks. If either of them reaches 0 HP, they will faint and be unable to move.
All monster attacks can be avoided, so there is no need to use Emergency Guard if you are confident you can dodge in time.
Noozes of various colors will work together to attack you. If you avoid one of their overhead attacks, they will follow up with an attack from below, so watch out!
A command that Larry can use. Randomly summons up to two ally units to assist in battle for that stage only.
While Morton is on duty, Bowser Jr.'s support causes his stats to slightly increase.
Recruit all characters
Koopaling Teamwork
Minis Marching
Urgghhhh! TASTES LIKE...POWER!
NOW...FAWFUL...THE MUSHROOM KINGDOM... AND YOU LOT...
Whoa, check out that "!" over my Mechakoopa's head!
The enemy took Malatone Formula:X!
Lemmy
That sounds bad!
ACCURACY Up
Super Sniper
DEF Drumsticks
HP Beans
POW Drumsticks
Basics #3: Pay Attention to your HP
If Mario's and Luigi's HP both reach 0, they'll faint. That means it's game over!
Try using Emergency Guard for enemy attacks that you don't think you can otherwise avoid.
Restoring the Air Cannon
A command that Bowser Jr. can use. Calls his clown car in with food supplies to restore health to nearby allies.
Cannot be used if no allies have fallen. If you're lucky, perhaps an ally with a mushroom will appear to heal fallen comrades...
Morton cannot use any other commands while he's shielding. Press  to release him from this role.
Use beans to fortify 200 times
Find the Carrot
ARE ALL DOOMED!
Bahaha! That was great.
I guess that "!" meant he was about to do an awesome attack.
Ugh, what am I yapping about? I sound like Ludwig. Back to fighting!
I understand. Be careful.
Midbus
They may move slowly, but their HP is a point of pride. They have protective spikes on their bodies but are weak against boomerang attacks.
EVASION Up
Mastermind
Defeat Cholesterons by using the Super Bouncer Bros. Attack until you fail. If you get a gold medal, you'll win a special item!
Bowser acts alone, which means that if his HP ever reaches zero, it's game over.
Dodge
Vacuum Dark Fawful Guys Quickly!
When the clown car is above the trooper you wish to heal, press to lower the snacks.
Receive 500 EXCELLENT ratings
Farm of Harm
Here we go!
Hey! They're taking the Skeletone! That's MY Skeletone!
Looks like you were up against some tall enemies...
It might be a good idea to add some Boomerang Bros. to your squad.
Discord
MORTON CRUSH
Koopa Troopa (Green)
If you get a game over, you'll have to start the battle over from the beginning.
Jump Guard
A bean that gives 3,000 EXP to Ranged troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Lakitu King
Pep will change into several different forms during battle, and each form will attack differently. Try to remember the pattern of its movements and counter-attack.
A trooper charges through foes before returning to their starting position. Deals damage to all enemies they run into along the way.
Earn all formation bonuses
A Touch of Terror
Welp. We're doomed.
A skilled thief who holds back on his thieving tendencies during battle. He is a mystery to all.
Hit 'Em Up
Bad Boy
EXP Drumsticks DX
Retry in Easy Mode
Touch the Goombas that continuously appear from the left and Bowser will breathe fire to set them aflame.
If a bro's HP gets low, or if he faints, choose the Item block and use an item to recover.
Basics #4: Win Battles, Get Stronger
Try to get an Excellent rating with a Bros. Attack that makes the ground tremble and shake. This is the only attack that will have any effect.
When Choombas are present, Coalbits will jump into their mouths and power them up.
When you're up against POW Pep, you won't be able to inflict any damage when it guards. Try countering when both of its arms are spread out.
Defeat Sneeds Quickly
Press    as your trooper slams into its foe.
If you form a special Formation while placing troopers in your squad, you may earn a Formation Bonus during battle.
Defeat 1,500 enemies
Peril at Bowser's Castle!
Not...just...yet.
It's time for...Plan X.
Super Stomp
To throw lots of fireballs, tap  when Mario's fire is at its maximum size, and  when Luigi's fire is at its maximum size.
The flaming Goombas will jump into the air and come plummeting down on the enemy's head. The more Goombas that fall, the more damage you'll inflict!
Nabbit
Drillbit Crab
King Bob-omb
Bandit
Mario and Luigi recover HP with Mushrooms, Bowser recovers with Drumsticks.
Try to use Vacuum to suck up the Coalbits. That way, Mario and Luigi can fight them before they can power up the Choombas.
DEF Pep can't attack, but it's nearly impervious to damage.
When used as a group attack, troopers will charge forward in order, starting with the one who is farthest in.
Press  to view the placement of enemies appearing in a particular quest.
You can check the Records menu to see which formations can grant your squad bonuses during battle.
Clear quests 200 times
Get the Giga-carrot
Sacre bleu! I will have zee kids take care of zis!
Oops.
I didn't realize they had a Plan X...
It's not a popularity contest. But if it were, you'd be winning!
Alors, choose Flame s'il vous plaît.
A bug monster that resembles Fawful. Be careful when it charges ahead with the drill on its rear!
Hurt or Heal
Koopa Paratroopa Trio
OK
Hammer
If they manage to throw lots of fireballs, the Bros. will be able to finish things off by throwing many giant fireballs together.
Best Fitness Friends
If Mario or Luigi faints during battle, use a 1-Up Mushroom to help them recover.
Turn on Assist to mark the character who's being targeted by an enemy's attack.
Coalbit
When Wiggler is angry, your attacks won't be able to deal any damage.
Lastly, SPEED Pep will zip around and attack different targets. If it appears above you, try not to jump!
You can also view their placement in the Formation menu.
Recruit 150 Minions
The Creeping Darkness
Tut tut! Do not be so hasty!
Hey! We need backup!
I'll finish you.
Show us what you got!
Ugh...it's hideous! And I thought Beef was disgusting!
Looks like you were up against some enemies in a unique formation...
Try pressing  before the battle to study the formation closely and plan your counter-attack.
If you see a large group of enemies of the same type, be sure to place plenty of troopers who are strong against that type in an advantageous position. And remember to use your commands in battle.
Hey!
You're growing into a fine Koopa warrior!
All right... Give me a big kick!
A creature with a strange, boisterous laugh. The power of its full body strike is nothing to giggle at.
One of the legendary original captains who saved Bowser and the Minions from catastrophe. Shy, but fly. He's especially strong against Lakitu.
Don't get caught in one of their sneak attacks! They love throwing turnips at Koopa Troopas of any kind.
Don't trust those innocent eyes. Their green shells provide a tough defense, but they're said to be weak against boney enemies.
Super Counter
The more fireballs you throw, the more damage you will deal to the enemy. Keep tapping those buttons!
In the Guide, under Battle Basics, you can view battle explanations and strategies, as well as some tips for winning.
POISON, BURN, DIZZY, SICK, and TRIP can all be healed by a Refreshing Herb.
If a red marker appears beneath Mario, that means he's the one being targeted.
However, attacking an individual segment of Wiggler's body will turn it yellow. Turning all the segments yellow will weaken it for a time. That's your chance to do some damage!
Defeating Midbus
Magic Rod
Jailgoon
When you attack enemies that have spikes, you will receive a small amount of damage.
A command that Lemmy can use. He'll climb atop a ball and charge forward.
Cute Tail Fail
GRR! I'LL CRUSH YA!
Whatever. We've got our own special plan. I call it...uh...Plan M!
All right, it's MY turn to brag about stuff.
Captain Command! Open the panel!
Morton!
Looking good as always, future king!
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. Has incredibly high EVASION.
Purple Biddybuds that fly through the air. Word has it they know the weakness of Shy Guys.
Lightning
Defeat Cholesterons by using the Spin Pipe Bros. Attack until you fail. If you get a gold medal, you'll win a special item!
In Battle Actions, you can see attack demos and practice mastering the necessary attack inputs.
Using items will eat into your supplies. You can acquire more items by defeating enemies or by purchasing them at shops.
If a green marker appears beneath Luigi, that means he's the one being targeted.
Big Tail Goomba
If you see Leaf Guys holding a vegetable, you can use Vacuum to suck them up and let the vegetable fall on Wiggler's body.
To defeat Toothies, you must attack their heads. Use Vacuum to suck in the body, then knock the head to the ground and attack it.
There are two types of spiky enemies: those that only have spikes on top, and those that are covered in them.
A command that Bowser Jr. can use. Prevents an opponent from using a Special Skill, changing it to a regular attack.
Press  and Bowser Jr. will kick the ball that Lemmy is riding. Aim for a spot where the most enemies have gathered.
Lots of Lakitu
You do? Well, what are you waiting for? Enlighten us!
When you see the "!", tap the icon below, or press up on the +Control Pad to use Deny!
What are you doing?
You're getting stronger with every battle.
They have explosive power upon impact. Handle these Melee troopers with care.
You can't beat that poker face. They pride themselves on their strength.
SPEED 5%↑
K. Paratroopa (Green)
Goombule
If you encounter a foe that you can't defeat, use the Run block to flee. Run too often, however, and your team won't get stronger!
If you turn on Assist for Bowser, you'll only be shown the button needed to avoid an enemy's incoming attack.
Defeating Crawful
You can counter Wiggler's charge attack by punching, but be careful! The counter will launch him into the air, and you'll need to duck to avoid taking full damage.
Durmite X
Enemies that only have spikes on top will not inflict damage if you attack from the side.
When used against a group, it decreases the number of enemies who can perform Special Skills.
Bwahaha! Playtime is over!
All right, so, Plan M...
Haha! DENIED! It's so satisfying.
You simply project a winning aura! 
The higher your STACHE number is, the more likely you are to get a Lucky Hit or a good deal shopping.
Red Biddybuds that fly through the air. When they see a Fawfulcopter, they can't help but dive attack.
Known for throwing their spears at foes. They seem to be invested in hunting for a mysterious red and blue creature.
Bomb Boo
If you're having trouble figuring out who an enemy is targeting, try turning Assist ON.
Defeating Air Cheeps
Defeating Dark Trashure
When it begins to move around Bowser, use a punch counter and aim for its head.
Hints for Improving
Ram into an opponent with a powerful tackle!
Enemies that are covered with spikes will deal damage no matter what direction you attack them from.
Deny will only work when an exclamation mark is over an enemy's head. It won't have any effect if it's used otherwise.
Wait, did that use up some of my CP? But those are MY Captain Points!
Bah, using Deny only cost one point. I guess I'll just have to keep an eye on it...
Whoa! Did you get taller?
Damage dealt to all ally Melee troopers!
 Formation
Let's go, Formation !
EXP Drumsticks L
Protobatter
Turn Assist on or off by selecting Settings from the star menu. It's worth a try if you find a battle too difficult.
A bean that grants 5,000 EXP, regardless of unit type.
Hammer Bro
Segment
Press  as your trooper slams into their enemy.
You can strengthen your units by feeding them beans.
They can't keep up with you, young Master!
Damage dealt to all enemy Flying troopers!
Nope!
Zis is wonderful!
EXP Drumsticks M
Ranged EXP Beans DX
Green Shell
Bowser
Alpha Kretin X
Hammer Guard
Mawful Mole
If you neglect to vacuum up Snawfuls, they'll repeatedly heal Blizzard Midbus and freeze Bowser with their attacks.
Defeating Wiggler
Metal Mawful's Rocks
When used as a group attack, troopers will line up on either side of the enemy and take turns tackling.
Minion Battles
When you have recruited too many minions, you can select the "Dismiss" option to go to a menu where you can part ways with them.
However, when you want to strengthen Bowser Jr., you need to give him chicken, not beans.
Wheee! Bahaha!
You're number one, and I'm not just saying that!
Damage dealt to all ally Flying troopers!
Denied all + Damage!
King Bowser!
Zis is a thing of beauty!
King of the Bob-ombs! He has a very sturdy frame and is strict about timeliness.
The fire it spits works well against plant-like enemies. It just has to remember not to burn itself.
Mystery Box
Fire Flower
You can see Mario's and Luigi's stats by checking out Status on the star menu screen.
Status Effects
A bean that gives 1,000 EXP to Flying troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
A bean that increases your SPIRIT by 1.
Fire Bros.
Defeating Snawfuls inside Bowser's body will cause them to melt and become clouds. Those clouds will then build up inside Bowser.
There are five spots that are vulnerable. Focus your attacks and destroy one at a time. These attacks will not reach Dark Star's main body.
Counter Dark Bowser's continuous punches by striking back with your own punches.
Defeating Enemies
From the dismiss menu, you can select which Minions you wish to part ways with. They may even leave you an item as a parting gift.
Watch this, Lord Junior!
All the Minions look up to you, young Master!
Damage dealt to all enemy Ranged troopers!
Deny + Damage!
Goomba corps reporting for duty!
We'll rout these guys with Operation Goomba Storm!
On your command, sir! 
No way!
Sure.
I have nothing to say!
Master Mario!
Great! Get it? 
No.
Yes.
The go-to blokes for a strong frontal offense. Their specialty is to push through their foes using their heavy bodies.
Parabuzzies are flying fortresses. They're bitter rivals with Buzzy Beetles and hate fighting against them.
Doppelganger
POW 5%↑
EXP Drumstick L
Press  right when Bowser has taken as deep a breath as he can! Then, hold down the button until the flames die off to earn an Excellent rating.
Jump Helmet
Broque Monsieur
Attack enemies with commands like JUMP and PUNCH to inflict damage. Victory is yours when their HP goes down to zero.
Attributes are separated into HP, BP, POW, DEF, SPEED, STACHE, and HORN.
Attacking with PUNCH
A bean that gives 100 EXP to Flying troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
When the clouds grow big enough, they'll blast out of Bowser's mouth and encase Blizzard Midbus's crown in ice. This will prevent any more Snawfuls from appearing.
It will dodge if you try to attack its legs before its glasses. Focus on the glasses first!
If you get locked in the black basket, try punching over and over again to swing it around.
When Pendril jumps out of the ground while holding a boulder, just wait and don't do anything.
Ups the SPEED of a trooper and their surrounding allies, allowing for more battle actions.
Defeat a Captain to Win
If you fulfill certain conditions, you can acquire items from the Rewards screen after battle.
We got this. Ha!
THWOMP STOMP!
Leave this to me, Lord Junior...
It's an honor to fight by your side, milord!
Here goes nothing!
Damage dealt to all ally Ranged troopers!
Ah. Very good, sir.
We will simply do our best in the heat of battle! Goo-rah!
LUCK 5%↑
EXP Drumstick M
Yoo Who Cannon
Deal additional damage when attacking by pressing the indicated button or moving the Circle Pad or stylus at the right time.
HP shows a character's health. Taking damage causes it to decrease. A character will faint if his HP reaches zero.
Defense
Once you destroy all of its legs, its body will drop to the ground. That's your opportunity to attack Dark Star!
For the falling rock attacks, strike the rock that drops right in front of Bowser to hit Dark Bowser.
Boswer's punch will sometimes miss. Watch closely as he's preparing to punch.
If a Dried Blooper attacks from a high position, watch out for continuous body slams.
Press  when the circle appears right over the character.
Win to Grow
All units have a distinctive battle technique called a Special Skill.
You can find more details about this in the Challenge section of the Records menu.
デバッグ用テストクエスト
C'mon, get fired up!
Let's go!
All right, it's just the two of us. Let's go!
Negotiation successful!
Ally HP restored by %!
What are you doing?
Oho Jee (Blue)
Very well, let's begin by picking Brawl Attack, as per regulations!
Ah! But of course not! As if Toadsworth could teach YOU about battling!
Those deep red gloves are proof of their strength. They especially like to break mechanical enemies.
A Shy Guy that has defected to Fawful's side. Calmly does chain stomps while skipping about.
Don't be fooled by their cool style. They love throwing turnips at Goombas of any kind.
They charge forward with supreme confidence. Their attacks miss easily, but they don't mind. They take pride in their strength.
Super Bouncer
The timing of your button presses will earn one of four possible ratings. Try to aim for the highest rating: Excellent!
BP shows your current Bros. Points and Brawl Points. These are necessary for Bros. Attacks and Brawl Attacks and will diminish as you use them.
Punch Guard
Fawful Guy
Toppling Chakron
Remember: Destroy the glasses, and then the legs, and then the body will fall and you can attack Dark Star!
When he grows, that's your chance! Punch his belly until it releases a Dark Star Core.
When Bowser blows flames, his attack will last a bit longer. Since you can't jump over the fire, simply grab Starlow and keep holding down the button!
All About Stats
During battle, you can see when a unit is about to use a Special Skill when "!" appears above its head.
Rolling Riot
Chilling Magma
There!
Looks like you were up against a unique enemy formation...
Press  before the battle to study their positioning. Look for a large grouping of similar enemy types...and then place your strongest allies against that type in an advantageous position.
Also, Beehosses are weak against fire attacks, so you might want to add some Fire Stalking Piranha Plants alongside the ranged troopers in your squad.
Count on me, Lord Junior!
Negotiating...
Enemy HP restored by %!
...Uh, just practicing...
Your Awfulness! Ready for the stylus?
But watch out for the counterattacking!
He will be pressing  with perfect timing like his life is depending on it!
Ahem...
A rare Lakitu that wears a crown. Rumored to act especially self-important against Spinies. 
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. Moves slowly, but just one attack can break through rock.
Shy Guys who fly gracefully through the sky. Some say they've learned the weakness of Parabiddybuds.
Yellow Biddybuds that fly through the air. Their specialty is Cranium Crush.
Mighty Meteor
POW shows a character's strength. The bigger that number is, the more damage that character will deal in battle.
Shell Guard
Bowser inhales deeply, sucking up small enemies entirely or some part of larger enemies.
When facing Dark Star Core's attacks, take a hint from how attacks were dodged in the previous battles.
Dark Bowser cannot be defeated unless you do something with the ejected Dark Star Core. Focus on Command Blocks when the Dark Star Core shows up.
Power Triangle
If you succeed at the attack's button input, you can score a bonus, such as a stronger attack or a power-up.
Larry Rally
Spiky Danger
Looks like you were up against flying enemies, melee enemies, and a very angry Morton...
Try building a ranged trooper-heavy formation, with a few flying types up front. And good luck!
MORTON PROTECT!
's CP was restored!
Young Master, allow me to do some dirty work...
OK, men! To arms!
Now then, when you choose the jump command, try pressing at just the right time!
EXP Drumstick DX
DEF Beans
Melee EXP Beans L
EXP Drumsticks S
Fly Guy
Roy
Snack Basket
DEF shows a character's defense. The bigger that number is, the less damage that character will receive in battle.
Using Brawl Attack
If Bowser successfully inhales enemies, they will weaken, heal Bowser, or power him up.
If you can't win, take a step back! Prepare Mario and Luigi by upping their levels or buying new equipment. It's also important to have recovery items and badges handy.
If Alarm Bob-ombs are allowed to go off, they'll wake up any Naplocks in the opposing squad. Try to stop them with a counter-attack before they explode.
Some Jailgoons have Bob-ombs inside their bodies! You can defeat these ones easily by using Mario or Luigi's Fire Flower, or Bowser's Fire attack.
When Metal Mawful Mole is holding rocks, keep an eye on his glasses. If they're covered with dirt, he'll throw the rock over your head.
About Matching
Call for Backup
Laughing Loudly
Looks like Broque Madame needs a stronger massage...
Perhaps you could try adding an Ice Bro or two to your formation... And remember that Bowser Jr.'s Snack Time command can heal your troopers in a pinch.
Last but not least, watch out for a whole bunch of melee enemies showing up late in the fight. It's a good idea to have some flying troopers in your formation just in case...
Stick with me and you'll be all right!
Post-battle EXP increased by %!
Bowser Jr.
Let's begin, Your Nastiness. I'll reconfirm procedures.
O mustachioed ones!
If you time it just right, you'll do more damage!
Melee EXP Beans M
Magic Window
Luigi
SPEED shows a character's quickness. The bigger that number is, the sooner a character can act in battle.
Flame Attack
When Bowser inhales small enemies, there are times when Mario & Luigi will have to fight them inside of Bowser's body.
A bean that grants 2,000 EXP, regardless of unit type.
Dark Fawful
If you successfully counter, the explosion will trigger Dizzy status in any nearby Naplocks.
Turn Order
Shell Shock
When choosing a quest, you can view information about the enemies you will encounter there.
Broque Madame's Handiwork
If you won't join us, leave now!
All status attributes decreased for all enemies!
We will charge from the left. When we do, tap us with the stylus to blast us with fire!
That punch is like a danger sandwich...
Not tasty, Bowser... You are the handful.
We have abided in silence as thy meter languished in emptiness!
Never fear...I shall help! Go forth and enjoy thy badge's newfound power!
Negotiate
Para-Biddybud (Green)
Falling Star
STACHE and HORN show a character's luck. A bigger number means more Lucky Hits and Bonus Cards.
Vacuum
A bean that gives 10 EXP to Flying troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
A bean that grants 300 EXP, regardless of unit type.
Hints for Strong Enemies
A mighty stomp on an enemy from above. Try to press  when you're positioned right above the enemy's head.
Special Skills
Banzai Bill Thrill
You can view more detailed information about an enemy by tapping their picture.
Drill Storm
Looks like Broque Madame needs a stronger massage...
Perhaps you could try adding an Ice Bro or two to your formation... And remember that Bowser Jr.'s Snack Time command can heal your troopers in a pinch.
Watch out for a whole bunch of melee enemies showing up late in the fight. It's a good idea to have some flying troopers in your formation just in case.
Last but not least, Ludwig's Stop and Drop skill can block Broque Madame's powerful attacks. But remember, Ludwig must be at least LV 26 to use it.
You have five seconds to decide.
Once we've received our fiery rations, our attack power goes up, as per regulations.
Ah, that is our Mario! So very wise!
Attack power. The higher your POW, the more damage you deal.
Strong against plantlike enemies like Treevil, but weak against the ice that Ice Bros. throw.
Stop and Drop
Melee EXP Bean L
EXP Drumstick S
Spin Pipe
Badge Energy and the Badge Meter
Dark Bowser
If you leave them alone, they'll drop bombs on Bowser. Try to use Vacuum on them as soon as you can!
A thrown weapon or beam will pierce through an opponent and damage all enemies behind them.
When used as a group attack, all troopers will move into the air. Press  when they're right above an enemy's head!
Captain Commands are special abilities that only a captain can use. You will acquire more as you grow stronger.
Super Counter
Dodge the Spikes!
Lord Junior! Who did this to you?
Resistance is useless.
Many thanks for helping us run our drills!
Oh, this is crucial! You can dodge Bowser's attacks!
You can simply jump over them by pressing !
Melee EXP Bean M
Horned Ant Trooper
Crawful will switch up its attacks and heal itself using items such as Beans.
Press  when the moving cursor appears over the target.
Melee and Flying troopers will seek out the closest enemy without an opponent and begin fighting.
Using Captain Commands costs CP. You will recover CP over time as you continue to engage in battle.
Lightning
Dancing on the Lake
Looks like you were up against a tough, balanced attack...
When your enemies deploy all types of units, you need to do the same. The trick is to place them in the right order. In this battle, try flying troopers up front, ranged in the middle, and melee in the rear.
Last but not least, when you're up against an especially powerful enemy captain, be sure to use your commands wisely, and experiment with different first officers. Good luck!
Those guys!
This is for your own good.
's CP restored by !
Haah... Gaah... Haaah...
Master Mario! At the risk of repeating myself, you must press  at the exact moment you stomp on Bowser!
Do please visit the guide if anything vexes you.
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. The only Flying type of the bunch, he's been known to fly around in a snazzy Clown Car.
Spike Top
Ninji
They're weak against fire, so try using Fire Flower. You'll find it makes them much easier to defeat!
To defeat it, try using Vacuum to steal its teeth. That will raise Bowser's DEF and also prevent Crawful from healing itself.
Cranium Crush
When used as a group attack, troopers line up and throw weapons or fire shots at once. Press  when the dark cursor is over a foe.
Ranged troopers behave a bit differently. If they see an ally engaged in battle, they will assist them from the rear.
Mystery Box
Ironclad Helmet Squad
Successfully denied !
Are you sure you want to quit? You will lose all progress in this quest.
Hey! I'm fine!
That weird mushroom is making me feel cruddy...
Can't win like this...
Health points. If your HP reaches 0, you'll pass out.
The brute force of the BFF. He's silent, but just one attack will leave you reeling.
Biffidus X
Select Brawl Attack, and Bowser will summon his loyal Minions.
Glam Lakitu
Dive Attack
If there are no allies battling nearby, or if a lone enemy closes in, they will begin fighting.
Doppelganger
Mario & Luigi?!
Can't hit me!
Watch this.
 were denied!
Looks like you were up against some tough melee enemies on the front line...
Try placing some flying troopers on the front line to protect your ranged troopers. Also, enemies with tails are weak against Ninjis, so consider adding some Ninjis to your squad.
Eh, let's say that guy.
They charge straight at enemies, even in the dark. The sound of their wings can weaken mechanical enemies, as well as certain other types.
Ultra C
Defeat Cholesterons by using the Yoo Who Cannon Bros. Attack until you fail. If you get a gold medal, you'll win a special item!
Beef
Melee EXP Beans S
Air Cheep
Broggy
Use the stylus to issue orders to Bowser's Minions. When you hit the Brawl Attack block, be prepared to use the stylus right away.
Naplock
Chain Stomp
Negotiate
Dad's Work
Me lonely sometimes, too.
Shy Guy Fleet, roll out!
Denial failed!
All right, you're gonna pay for that!
Magnet
Ranged EXP Bean DX
Press  when the Hammer is above Luigi's head! Time it perfectly to earn an Excellent rating.
Using Brawl Attacks consumes BP. You can restore BP with items like Cheese.
Dark Star Core
A bean that grants 30 EXP, regardless of unit type.
Beware of Pendril's Traps
You can inhale Lakitu Kings using Vacuum. They toss both coins and Spiny Eggs, so be careful about which ones you try to collect.
Don't Stomp on Sockops
Throw the Fight
A command that Ludwig can use. He will attempt to negotiate with a single foe. If successful, the enemy will leave the battle.
Your progress in Bowser Jr's Journey is saved any time a quest is cleared.
All right, son... Let's see if you can stand up to your old man!
Get set...
Looks like you were up against some tough enemies...
Luckily, a number of them are weak against fire attacks. Try adding some Fire Stalking Piranha Plants or Fire Bros. to your squad.
Hey, buddy!
Bowser Memory LX
Dragon
Defeat Cholesterons by using the Green Shell Bros. Attack until you fail. If you get a gold medal, you'll win a special item!
Press  right as you stomp down. Time all of your attacks well and aim for an Excellent rating.
Bowser X
Pay attention to the projectiles that Piranha Plorp spits. Red projectiles are aimed for Mario, and Green for Luigi.
You can't damage Dark Star with normal attacks.
Bowser Memory Hints
Rain of Pain
Uses a dissonant chord to deal a small amount of damage to a nearby enemy and to reduce their stats.
Additionally, some enemies will actually join your side if the negotiation is successful. The weaker the enemy, the more likely Ludwig is to succeed.
You can also save by opening the Menu, selecting "Exit Bowser Jr.'s Journey," and then selecting "Yes."
Ehh...you must work zee knots out!
I won't hold back this time. Show me what you've got!
Fire!
You're not really my buddy, pal!
If you stomp a monster to begin battle like just now, you deal instant damage!
This gives you the upper hand, so use it often!
Windmill
Melee EXP Bean S
SPEED Bean
Scutlet
Dieter
Dark Satellmite
Junker Can X
Dark Mechawful's head will escape after it's defeated, and it will revive if you don't do something.
If you attack Dark Satellmite, Dark Star will fall to the ground and throw Dark Satellmite and a bomb. Only strike back at Dark Satellmite!
If one of Midbus's attacks hits you, the crowd will throw food and Midbus will try to use it to heal. Try to vacuum the food up before Midbus can get it.
Gather power and cause projectiles to hail down on and damage multiple surrounding foes.
Spitfire Fury
Press  when the circle appears right over the character.
Now there are two of me!
You guys'll need to work together to get far...
Mario! Luigi!
OK, so, zee Vacuum Block...
It is reacting with zee intensity! Choose it right zis instant!
Ah! Monsieur!
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. A quick thinker who's quite good at lying, negotiating, and managing tricky situations.
Shield
Bubble
Para-Biddybud (Purple)
You can view the Battle Guide anytime by tapping the pause button on the bottom screen.
Sometimes it will revive as the more powerful Dark Mechawful.5. If you defeat this version, it may drop a rare item.
When you successfully hit Dark Satellmite back to Dark Star twice, Dark Star will fall asleep. This is your only chance to attack.
If you duck too early during Midbus's spinning metal ball attack, you'll stand up while he's still spinning. Try to wait until he gets extremely close before ducking.
If you use Vacuum to steal the Sworms from Chain Chawfuls, they'll be much easier to defeat.
Press  quickly to build up power. The more power you build, the more projectiles your trooper will be able to throw.
Piercing Projectile
When used as a group attack, Discord is performed after input has been completed for all units involved.
The strength of each of your Minions is shown as their status if you select them from the Formation menu.
No! Who got you?
I am here to play games with your lives.
Oh, I didn't forget about you!
Ludwig
Broggy, he jumps up on people, sometimes. He is naughty, oui!
So, if he jumps on you, zat is when you use zat fine shell!
You want zee lecture? 
I do NOT.
I do!
They can use Whomping Wallop to attack all foes in front of them. Weak against balance-breaking boomerang attacks.
Thwomp Thump
Diamond
Ranged EXP Beans L
Easy Mode
An entry was added to the Brawl Attack Guide.
Aim the moment the time counter reaches zero for a counter-attack punch.
Dark Star will fire Shadow Beam toward the shadows of Mario and Luigi. If it hits their shadow, they will receive damage.
When Midbus closes in on you slowly, try using punch counters repeatedly.
You should try to attack Treevils using Fire Flowers or Fire, as they are susceptible to Burn status.
However, you can only use Vacuum to steal Chain Chawful's Sworms when its head is sticking out. You'll need to use Fire attacks when its head is hidden.
When used as a group attack, all troopers will throw their weapons at once.
Chain Shot
There are five status attributes: HP, POW, DEF, SPEED, and SPIRIT.
Ooh, you're so cheeky.
Join us! The benefits are solid.
Hey, by the way, Luigi... You remember how to attack?
I'm sure you do, of course. You attack with .
Mario uses  and Luigi uses . Make sure not to confuse those two, guys!
Oh... OK, good luck!
MAGNIFIQUE!
Ah, oui, no need for moi...
A rare type of Boo that goes kaBOOm! After exploding, they won't return until the next battle. Keep that in mind!
Starry Sky
Mechakoopa
Ranged EXP Beans M
Para-Biddybud (Red)
Starlow transforms into a reticule that you can move with  to follow the big star moving on the top screen.
An entry was added to the Brawl Basic Guide.
Press  during an enemy attack to punch.
It will launch a dark-beam punch from its head. While you can dodge the beam, you absolutely must counter-attack the punch that follows.
When Mario and Luigi jump, their shadows will too. Use this knowledge to avoid the beam!
Glam Lakitu
Also, beware of Treevils with fruit! You can use Vacuum to steal the fruit away.
Straw
SPEED Up
HP shows a character's health. It decreases when damage is taken. A character will leave the battle if its HP reaches zero.
Let us begin the show!
Enemy SPEED Up!
Stay back and watch this.
Welcome to our journey.
Wait a minute!
All right then, first off choose the Bros. Attack command block.
Zut alors, zis is a surprise! Messieurs inside zee monsieur...
How are you, honh?
When he jumps, hold down  and you will duck!
They normally live quietly in the woods. When they rustle about, prepare to be tackled.
Pipe
Koopa Troopa (Red)
Charred Spicy Drumsticks
Use  if the big star is red and  if it's green to throw small stars that will stick to it. Throw the stars when the reticule flashes to make it easier to hit.
An entry was added to the Brawl Command Guide.
Doing so can stop an enemy's tackle or knock down a flying enemy.
Glasses
Defeating Airnapses
Watch Scutlet's Eyes
Don't Let Alarm Bob-ombs Wake Naplocks!
If you defend early against a Sniffle Thwomp's downward attack, they'll stop short. You can use this technique to draw them in and then counter-attack!
Lakitu King
POW Up
POW shows a character's attack power. The higher the number, the more damage a character will deal in battle.
Ally SPEED Down!
I'm just getting warmed up!
You'll get three meals and a snack.
Bowser (Ranged)
Yeah! These monsters telegraph their attacks!
Want to hear about it? 
Nope!
Sure!
With this attack, you guys kick a shell back and forth!
Mario kicks with and Luigi with .
The trick is to press     in a good rhythm.
And get this! You can check out a Demo or even Practice if you open up the Guide.
Broggy, he does not give up yet, non!
He will jump from zee rear! Duck, or zis will be très bad for vous!
Your Rashness! This battle is fraught with danger, sir!
Allow us to protect you, sir! The Goomba corps has trained for situations like this!
Turn us loose and this mangy dog will feel a savage bonking unlike anything he's dreamt!
This cur doesn't merit your attention, sir! Unleash us and we'll take care of everything!
You got a Blitty!
Their specialty is using their jumping skills to attack. They won't join your side...mostly because they can't leave the water.
Airplane
Defeat Cholesterons by using the Magic Window Bros. Attack until you fail. If you get a gold medal, you'll win a special item!
Ranged EXP Bean L
If you select Easy Mode, your characters will become stronger, and enemies will be easier to defeat. *Easy Mode can be disabled in the Settings menu.
The more small stars you stick to the big star, the more damage you'll deal to the enemy. So tap those buttons and keep sticking!
Placing your troopers in certain formations will trigger a Formation Bonus that will beef up some of your stats.
Appendage
If he tosses coins or Mushrooms, try not to perform a counterattack so that you can collect them.
To defend against their attacks, try to pay attention to which direction Sniffle Thwomps are facing after they've fallen over and been picked up by a Shy Guy.
DEF shows a character's defense. The higher the number, the less damage a character will take in battle.
A skill that Wendy can use. Randomly causes a helpful effect, such as increasing the EXP received after the battle is won.
The Best Beast
ARRRGH!
Enemy SPEED Down!
I can really help you network.
Let's get to it!
Sneak Attack
Jet
Ranged EXP Bean M
You can learn more about formations in the Formation section of the Records menu.
A bean that increases your DEF by 1.
If the key breaks and his mouth becomes stuck open, that's your chance to collect a bunch of coins! Use Vacuum while you can.
Pay attention to Choombas as they release their smoke. They'll attack in the same order, so try to remember and counter.
Iggy
Makes the attacks of a trooper and their surrounding allies more accurate.
SPEED shows how fast a character is. The higher the number, the shorter the time between battle actions.
A command that Kamek can use. He'll talk sweetly to Bowser Jr. to restore some CP.
Rumor has it there are also some secret effects that are rarely seen...
Beat the Minions!
Ally SPIRIT Up!
Let's do this together!
You use up the number next to the attack. That's the BP cost.
If you don't have enough BP right then, you can't use that Bros. Attack!
When you inhale like you just did, you inhale zee monsters and zee items.
Ah! Un moment!
The brains of the BFF. He will achieve his goals by any means necessary.
Coddle
Massage Broque Madame using the Koopa Corps Bros. Attack with up to three fails. If you get a gold medal, you'll win a special item!
Super EXP Beans L
A new entry was added to your Formation Menu guide.
Battle Bowser!
Defeating Mechawful
You will be eaten if you try to stomp on Sockops, so don't use Jump attacks and try to avoid landing on them when dodging their attacks.
Jump atop an opponent's head, and then jump some more to chain together up to two stomps.
Press  when the circle appears right over the character.
SPIRIT shows a character's fighting spirit. It's rumored that the higher this number is, the easier it is to use Special Skills...
While coddling, you can either Continue or Stop. Coddle too long and Bowser Jr.'s mood will go south, diminishing the effects.
You can retry once if you get an effect that you don't want.
Boomerang Rally
Hurry up! Get out here!
Hey, I'm hungry!
Enemy SPIRIT Up!
I'd love your help.
Also, if one of you gets KO'd, you can't use Bros. Attacks either, so be careful!
Oh honh! I have forgotten zis crucial thing...
You are craving zee punching now, honh?
I told you, non! Non!
Broggy, he laughs at your petit punches!
But he is very much disliking zee fire.
A flame attack is zee best choice!
Monsieur, you look good at using flame...
Shall I lecture, honh? 
No need.
Fine.
Don't trust those innocent eyes. Their red shells provide a tough defense. Rumored to know Para-Biddybud's weakness.
Super EXP Beans M
If you're facing off against a squad with Magifoofas, you'll want to take them out before they can heal other enemies.
Fawful Guy's Feints
Spin and smash into enemies. Successfully perform button inputs to attack foes up to three times.
Press  right as your trooper stomps down. Succeed to get another chance to stomp!
Squads that go into battle always have one captain.
Explosive Troops
You're making a wise decision.
Now you can use the Bros. Attack formed by those Attack Pieces!
Just like zis, zee monsters who float  in zee air on zee top screen get sucked to zee bottom!
Some monsters who resist zee inhalation can get inhaled by pressing zee button fast.
If you inhale like zis, zee hard battles, zey become easy... maybe.
Please remember to watch zat Vacuum Block during zee battles, honh?
Let us continue!
A beautiful harmony of red shell and white wings. A bit more powerful than their green brethren.
Ranged EXP Beans S
Wipe off Broggy to scrub the mud away and get him clean.
Alpha Kretin and Beta Kretin
You can only damage Alpha Kretin by attacking with Mario when his orbs are red, and Luigi when his orbs are green. If either bro is KO'd, you may not be able to attack at all!
Before attacking, a Scutlet will look up or down, depending on whether it's going to attack Mario or Luigi. Watch closely and get ready to counter.
Pay attention to the shapes they throw—each one has a different trajectory. The round shape in particular has a tricky bounce!
If you feel enemies are too strong, try checking your level and gear.
Press  as your trooper slams into their foe.
When used as a group attack, both troopers will face the opponent and stomp at the same time.
Victory is determined when the captain of either side has their HP reduced to zero.
Line up!
Are you happy with your career path?
Want me to explain how to use that Bros. Attack? 
No.
Please!
Para-Biddybud (Yellow)
As sweets come flying out of the snack basket, move Luigi right and left with  so he can eat up.
The more mud you scrub off, the cleaner Broggy will become and the more damage he'll inflict. So try not to miss a spot!
Select Punch to have Bowser hit an enemy and inflict damage.
A new entry was added to the Guide.
When Alpha Kretin fires energy projectiles, it will attack Mario and Luigi in the order that the blue energy flows. Try to remember the order and counter attack!
Napse's Projectiles
If enemies are at a higher level than your characters, try defeating some weaker enemies to level up.
The Trio Clash!
Lord Junior! This is not playtime anymore. This is serious!
You need to know that if you lose all your HP, you'll actually lose!
Even if your friends survive.
Ally ACCURACY Up!
We're a friendly army.
SPIRIT Drumstick
SPEED Drumstick
When Luigi is nice and full of sweets, he'll move above Mario. Tap  repeatedly to lift him up and toss him overhead.
If you find that Bros. Attacks are too difficult to perform, try utilizing Easy Attack Mode.
Note that he won't be able to reach flying enemies this way.
Chakron
Alpha Kretin's projectiles will turn blue after taking enough damage. When all six are blue, they will separate and form Beta Kretin.
An enemy's level is displayed next to its name.
Recruit all types of Melee troopers
Shy Guy Reunion
Like those Goombas are gonna knock me out. Please!
Enemy ACCURACY Up!
Now you're in trouble!
Do you want to be a leader?
Ranged EXP Bean S
When Luigi starts to flail in mid-air, press to perform a body press! Remember that the amount of damage and your rating depend on Luigi's size.
Defeat all enemies to win a battle and earn EXP for Mario and Luigi. Earn enough and their Levels will increase.
Although this mode requires more BP, it makes it easier to successfully time Bros. Attacks.
Hit the Guide command block to check it out.
Crawful
Beta Kretin will make clones of itself, and you can only damage the original. Try to remember its location!
Fawflopper has two jumping attacks, one from an elevated position, and the other from the front.
When you acquire new equipment, check it out in the Gear section of the star menu screen.
A command that Iggy can use. He will counter all opponents attacking Bowser Jr.
Recruit all types of Flying troopers
The Lost Alien
Lord Junior! Check this out!
Also, you should know that you don't need to defeat all of them to win.
You just need to defeat the leader!
Looks like you were up against a balanced attack...
You should make sure your squad is balanced, too, and positioned so that your troopers will be at an advantage. Also, Oho Jees are weak against Spear Guys, so try adding some alongside your ranged troopers.
Ally ACCURACY Down!
HP Drumsticks
As the sweets are falling, if you see one flashing, press  to make Luigi jump and eat it. This will allow you to fatten him up as much as possible.
As they grow in level, they will deal additional damage and their HP will increase, all of which will make defeating enemies easier.
Press  when selecting an attack to enable Easy Attack Mode.
Before he uses his tackle attack where he jumps in the air, his body will glow red.
Watch Choomba's Smoke
If you find yourself getting pummeled by enemy attacks, try using gear that raises your HP and DEF.
A command that Bowser Jr. can use when he's a Ranged type. Volleys a huge bomb back and forth between the opposing squads.
The lower Bowser Jr.'s remaining HP is, the more damage this move will deal.
Strengthening Units with Items
Recruit all types of Ranged troopers
Better Together
Ha! Nice one, Larry. I think that was a critical hit!
That sounds boring! I'll take 'em all out!
Meanwhile, Flying troopers have an advantage over Melee troopers, who must fight on the ground.
Silent soldiers who keep their cool while cornering enemies. They like to catch foes off guard with powerful attacks.
Cranium Crush
Eagle
Super EXP Beans S
Jump
If you feel that enemies are getting too strong, fight foes that are easy for you to defeat, and proceed once you've increased your level.
The amount of damage the attack deals will not be affected, so give it a try for attacks you're having trouble with.
Watch out for a feint during his front tackle! If he laughs before attacking, he will jump above Mario and Luigi's heads.
Move above the enemy, and then drop down with great force to deal lots of damage.
Use the +Control Pad to place the cursor where the big bomb lands and press  in time to return the volley!
Change Position
Recruit all first officers.
Goomba Squad, Go!
The Power of the Koopalings
You can get more critical hits against enemy types that you're strong against.
It's all about the matchup, so be sure to check out enemy profiles to plan your attack.
To do that, just open up the Formation menu and tap an enemy's profile. Easy.
I told you. You're wasting your time.
In case you were wondering, Mechakoopas and Goombas are both Melee troopers.
Oho Jee (Red)
Now, for the second stomp, again, you must press  at the exact moment of impact to generate the most damage.
And I would be remiss if I failed to yet again suggest the guide as a helpful resource!
Magikoopas dressed in green. They use their magic wands to raise a nearby unit's SPEED!
The professional cutie of the BFF. At least, she usually talks in a cutesy way. But is that how she REALLY is...?
Dive Attack
Water Strider
Defeating Dark Fawful
The Nut item is useful because it heals both Bros. at the same time.
Face a foe and fly forward to give them a powerful headbutt!
The big drop happens after a mid-air spin. Press  as your trooper lands!
When a battle begins, your Minions will each pick an opponent and start fighting automatically.
Hit the bomb at a low point to return it quickly, or at a high point to return it slowly. Try waiting until the last second before you send it back.
Formation Bonus
Use beans to fortify 100 times
A Shy Guy Try
So...I can set up a formation that gives me the advantage...and it's not considered cheating?
Ha! Suckers. They're making it too easy for me.
Oh, and I think I already read your profile, Wendy. It says, "Gets angry at the drop of a hat."
Best Fitness Friends...it is time. BEGIN TRANSFORMATION!
Yeah, well... You gotta try, you know?
They charge forward valiantly into battle with no regard for themselves!
As such, Melee troopers are strong against Ranged troopers.
This system of strengths and weaknesses is known as the Power Triangle.
Guys! Bring out a Big Bomb!
See that? You guys must be feeling great now!
So, any time you fill up the meter, you can use that badge's power when it's your turn to choose a command block.
Ah, that is our Mario! So very wise!
Chain Stomp
Pyramid
Cheep Cheep
Slide the Bob-ombs that are lined up toward the enemy you want to attack.
Spear Guy
Sniffle Thwomp
Dark Mechawful.5
Fawfulcopter
Items can be used outside of battle as well. Use Mushrooms or Drumsticks to heal HP when it has gotten low.
Ice Bro
Press  as your trooper slams into their enemy.
When used as a group attack, troopers will move above the enemy and stomp down on them in order.
When they are finished with one opponent, they will choose another, moving to its location to fight.
If "!" appears above one of your allies, you have an advantage! Try using a fast swing to send a bomb quickly for an extra powerful attack.
First Officer
Select Bowser Jr. and press to change his type.
Defeat 1,000 enemies
Boo Brigade
Oh, I KNOW Roy hasn't been messing with my profile again...
URGGGGH!
...This army isn't big enough. I need to step it up!
Now, since you are a Melee trooper, Lord Junior...
You have the advantage over these Shy Guys, who are Ranged troopers!
Looks like you were up against a balanced attack...
You should make sure your squad is balanced, too, and positioned so that your troopers will be at an advantage. Also, the enemy captain is a ranged type, so consider putting a melee trooper at the back of your squad.
When you defend with the hammer, you have to press and hold the button to prepare it.
It's not like a jump. You can't just dodge instantaneously.
Once the attack is about to strike, release the button at just the right time to block it.
It's kind of tough since you have to prepare in advance, so don't lose your focus!
Whoa! Looks like there's a new badge icon on the touch screen.
Try tapping it! It's just to the right of the badge meter.
What a vacuum...
So zen, watch zee way Broggy moves carefully...
If I have imparted nothing else, please remember to check the guide if there's anything you don't understand.
Bowser Jr.'s attentive caretaker. Flies about on a broom shooting off powerful attacks.
Throw the Fight
Ghost
POW 10%↑ and DEF 10%↑
To help keep Luigi from falling, turn the ball that Mario throws by sliding left and right on the . Use the ball to crush enemies!
The more Bob-ombs you focus on a single enemy, the bigger the explosion will be and the more damage you'll inflict.
You can perform a Hammer Guard during an enemy attack when Mario and Luigi are holding out their Hammers.
Stonks are weak to fire, so try using Fire Flower to take them down.
When used as a group attack, troopers will line up and headbutt the enemy from the front.
First Officer Skill
Recruit all four original captains
Koopa Troopa Trouble
Ha! He's not wrong.
PEAK FITNESS ACHIEVED! I WILL DESTROY YOU ALL!
Now that's more like it! Chaaaarge!
Whew! I know it's a lot of information, but your survival DOES depend on it, so...
...Are you even listening a little bit?
Huh, it looks like you can switch badges here...
But you don't have enough badges to do that yet.
Guide Block added!
GAAAAH!
A Magikoopa that resembles Fawful. It's a powerful foe, but has difficulty fighting against Bowser Jr.
Rain of Pain
All stats 5%↑
Press  when the ball lands on an enemy and the ball will return to Mario. Time your  press to throw it again!
If you select Easy Mode, Mario, Luigi, and Bowser will become stronger, and enemies will be easier to defeat.
Keep their character buttons pressed down to make them hold their Hammers up.
A bean that increases your HP by 1.
Gives Bowser Jr. +1 HP.
Watch Dried Blooper's Position
Not everything that comes out of Trashure's mouth will hurt you! Watch for when it throws mushrooms or coins, and be sure to avoid countering.
A command that Morton can use. The impact of a Thwomp thumping deals damage to all troopers on the ground.
Changing Bowser Jr.'s Type
Defeat the Best Fitness Friends
Lollygagging Larry
Oh, REALLY?
Whoa, what's happening?
Are you finally done talking? Come and get me!
Badges have various effects depending on their combination.
Try switching around your badges in various combinations to see what you find!
Your first battle in some time!
What's wrong with you? Your color is...weird!
Well, whatever, I'll still win this fight, no prob!
They hustle through the air atop a cloud. They're strong against Spinies, and their weakness is Captain Shy Guy's turnip attack.
The go-to soldiers among Bowser's Minions. They move fast and charge into foes!
Spitfire Fury
EVASION 10%↑ and HP 10%↑
DEF Drumstick
POW Drumstick
Luigi will polish things off with a front ball press. Press  after he hits a foe with the ball to finish!
Mario & Luigi
Beta Kretin X
You can perform defensive actions during enemy attacks. If you manage to avoid attacks this way, you won't take damage.
You can select Easy Mode in the Settings menu, or when you game over after losing a battle. Use it if you ever feel the game is too hard.
When they are holding their Hammers above their heads, release the buttons to swing the Hammers down.
Fawfulcopter the Summoner
Additionally, if you hit a Trashure and see its mouth hanging open, it's a good time to try using Vacuum...
Defeating Chain Chawful
Lakitu
A command that Roy can use. Roy will spin around in his shell and attack surrounding enemies. POW increases after this attack.
Press  right before the Thwomp lands to move Morton and your allies out of the way and avoid receiving damage.
Clear quests 100 times
Former Captains, Unite!
Borp Bullet Blitz
Yikes! You deal with this, Roy. I'm outta here!
I don't care what kind of dirty tricks you come up with.
You messed with my Dad, you messed with the Minions...now you have to answer to me!
Hah! He didn't hear a single word you said!
Looks like you were up against lots of melee and flying enemies...
Ranged troopers are strong against flying enemies, so you might try putting as many of them as you can at the back of your formation.
Attention, messieurs! If zis massage becomes too weak...I will not get zee relief I need!
Keep your eyes on zis number, s'il vous plaît!
Bowser (Melee)
Shall I refresh you on attacks? 
Nah.
Sure!
And for the finale, one KO punch!
Mechanical creatures that cause trouble when they explode. It seems they're easy to break with Broozer's punches.
Piercing Projectile
POW 10%↑ and SPIRIT 10%↑
Massage Broque Madame using the Goomba Storm Bros. Attack with up to three fails. If you get a gold medal, you'll win a special item!
Chargin' Chuck
You can't hit a Stone Blooper when it's perched on a Sea Pipe Statue. Try using Vacuum before attacking.
A command that Bowser Jr. can use when he's a Melee type. He'll march up to the enemy Captain to begin a showdown.
Morton will jump toward an enemy at the same time that the Thwomp lands. Press  right when he stomps to deal extra damage!
Recruit 100 Minions
The Power of Junior
CP fully restored!
I am feeling a little tired...
's DEF increased!
Go!
You're quite talented, young Master!
Your foes have become small and weak!
Alors...you cannot possibly give zee full- body massage I require with zis crew.
Come back when you have six troopers or more, s'il vous plaît!
HERE I GO!
Chain Shot
ACC. 10%↑ & LUCK 10%↑
POW Bean
Super EXP Beans DX
Retry battle?
Once you inhale the Stone Blooper and attack it repeatedly inside Bowser's body, it will get angry and charge from the air. Watch its angle carefully and try to counter-attack!
Pep's Many Forms
Remember that you can't use Jump attacks on spiked foes. Using the Hammer is a much better idea.
Bowser Jr. will take damage from any foes he encounters on the way. If a First Officer is there, they will act as a shield for their captain.
Heaps of Hammers
Elite Goombule
Ughhh...they are not as weak and pathetic as they look!
I suppose it has come to this...
Although King Bob-omb and Broque Madame are both powerful enemies, you should focus on King Bob-omb by placing more melee troopers in your squad.
You'll also need to watch the time limit in the battle. Try using quick attacks that target the entire group of enemies at once, like Lightning and Banzai Bill Thrill.
Also, if you change Bowser Jr. to a ranged trooper, he can slowly whittle down your enemies' HP while your allies fight on the front lines.
's SPEED increased!
You got this!
You're probably the coolest Koopaling...besides Wendy.
Unbelievable! More enemy reinforcements showed up!
Your allies have become small and weak!
Tut, tut...zat is enough. We will have to try again.
Next time, bring zee muscle! You need a big team, oui!
Behold, the flying Dry Bones! For some reason, they're especially confident against Bro. foes.
SPEED Up
SPEED 5%↑ and HP 15%↑
Tail Boo
Boomerang Bro
Belly
Captain Shy Guy
Defeat Magifoofas Quickly
If you counter successfully, the Stone Blooper will fly outside of Bowser's body and crash into the Sea Pipe statue.
Nooz's Combination Attack
Crash into an enemy and explode. This also damages  nearby foes. After your unit explodes, it will not reappear until the next battle.
Treevil Tidings
The Three Forgotten Brothers
Dieter! Are you sure?
Enemies in this quest use a Lightning attack that lasts longer than usual. Your troopers can't pull off any attacks of their own while small, so be careful!
Also, if you've lost some of your allies, and things look bleak, don't give up! You can try using Wendy's Doppelganger to give yourself another chance.
Hang on!
Your hair looks perfect as usual, young Master!
An incredibly large Boo. What it lacks in speed it more than makes up for in stamina and power.
POW Up
DEF 15%↑ and HP 5%↑
Morton
Flying EXP Beans L
Bowser goes into his spiked shell. Slide Bowser to the left while a Shy Guy squad pushes him into a taut rope.
Vacuum Helmet
Dark Fawful Guy
Spike
Prevent Beehoss from Healing
When this happens, it's your chance to pummel the Stone Blooper with attacks. Try to deal as much damage as possible before it returns to the statue.
Press  as your trooper slams into their enemy.
The First Officer fights alongside the Captain during Captain battles.
Bowser and...Bowser?
Don't worry. It will only alter 97% of your DNA.
And I will take it, too.
It's a good idea to use Ludwig's Stop and Drop against enemies possessed by Malatone Formula:X, but be sure to keep some of your CP in reserve.
Try using Deny to stop regular attacks from regular enemies, and Rally to raise your squad's SPIRIT.
Conserve Ludwig's CP and you'll be in good shape for the final battle against a horde of Malatone Formula:X maddened enemies!
's ACCURACY increased!
You have the classic teeth of a leader, milord!
Bowser Jr. (Melee)
Servants of the Shroob Princess who once attacked the Mushroom Kingdom. It seems that the sound of flapping wings makes their weapons malfunction.
An annoying and loud mechanical monster. Rumored to be weak against the sound of bat wings...
That chilly ice is especially strong against Fire Bros. They're weak against Fly Guys, but keep that a secret!
POW 20%↑
Super EXP Bean DX
Flying EXP Beans M
When Luigi puts on the Jump Helmet, Mario jumps aboard and does huge jumps when you press !
The more you push the rope, the more damage you'll deal to the enemy!
Airnapse
Bowser
When used as a group attack, exploding allies will latch onto an enemy and wait for a melee trooper to charge in and detonate them.
You can mark characters as your favorites (★) in the Formation menu by tapping them and holding down on the bottom screen.
Just like Captains, First Officers can use CP to unleash powerful attacks.
Minion Mayhem
's EVASION increased!
That shell's looking great on your back today!
Bowser Memory L
Bowser Jr. (Flying)
Control Luigi by sliding left and right on the and try to catch Mario after each jump!
Biffidus
Select Bros. Attack to have Mario and Luigi work together to perform a special attack!
Piranha Plorp's Projectiles
When Protobatter is attacked, it gets bigger and stronger. But its attacks also get slower, so they're a little easier to dodge.
Defeating Sniffle Thwomps
Ludwig can use this command to stop an enemy's Special Skill and deal damage in return.
You can deploy a First Officer by placing an eligible character on the tile above the Captain.
Looks like you were up against lots of flying and ranged enemies.
Try putting your own ranged troopers up front, and melee troopers in the rear!
Ludwig's ACCURACY + POW increased!
You're a real chip off the old block!
Do I have to do everything?
Bowser Memory M
Bowser Jr. (Ranged)
Bowser Jr.
OK, first choose the hammer!
Flying EXP Bean L
Press  every time Mario lands on the Jump Helmet to chain together jumps. The move ends with a finishing stomp on the enemy!
Mario
Whoa, check out that guy with the sack... I want him in my army!
Select DEMO to view a tutorial video. This is a great way to learn the timing of moves.
Enemy Encounters
You can deal even more damage to enemies by successfully following button prompts during a Bros. Attack.
You can also tell who Protobatter will attack by watching the direction it swings its club. It will swing outside if it's going to attack Mario, and inside if it's going to attack Luigi.
A command that Larry can use. Press  repeatedly to have Bowser Jr. kick Larry at your enemies.
This move is only effective against enemies with an "!" over their heads.
Characters that can be First Officers have a silver border around their profile.
You give all of us the courage to go on fighting!
Try harder!
Build as much power as you can, and then press the button to swing.
Stone Blooper
They tend to release a great many bees. Their piercing projectiles are strong, but they're weak against fire attacks.
DEF 5%↑
Flying EXP Bean M
Broque Madame
In PRACTICE, you can try attacks for yourself. Keep at it until you've mastered them.
Basics #5: Status Attributes
Using these attacks will consume BP. You can restore BP by using items like Syrup.
A command that Bowser Jr. can use. Increases SPIRIT and temporarily makes Special Skills easier to execute.
Press  again when Larry's shell hits an enemy and Larry will spin rapidly, dealing even more damage.
Stay focused!
MORTON PROTECT!
You don't just win— you win in style!
Keep going!
Good! Just like that.
Trashure
Character Targeting
Piranha Plorp
Dark Mechawful Tips
If a group of Borps breathe twice, they will then attack both bros one at a time in order.
Hey, look at those spiky things!
Bahaha! Let's go!
I won't forget this.
...MORTON LEAVE NOW.
These guys don't stand a chance against you!
You're in charm's way, fool!
Bubble Blooper
Massage Broque Madame using the Magikoopa Mob Bros. Attack with up to three fails. If you get a gold medal, you'll win a special item!
SPEED Beans
Sockop
Press  when the Hammer is above Mario's head! Time it perfectly to earn an Excellent rating.
Fire Stalking P. Plant
Chain Chawful
Assist
Bully
If you attack Dark Fawful, Vacuum Helmet will heal him. Think about the order in which you should attack them!
Jailgoon's Secret
Spike Blop
Tenderling
Knock an opponent backwards and into the unit behind them. The other unit also receives damage.
Young master! Those are Spinies.
All right! Let's do this!
No deal. Not now, not ever!
I got this. Get outta here!
Hiyaah!
They throw boomerangs with ample gusto. Their specialty is to attack the bellies of tall enemies like Pokeys.
HP Bean
Flying EXP Beans S
POW Pep
+1 POW and HP for each level up.
Pull back your fist and press  when you're fully charged! Try your best to score an Excellent rating.
Using Bros. Attacks
Vacuum Helmet will sometimes move to the top screen during battle. That's when you'll want to use your Vacuum ability on it!
Press  as your trooper slams into their enemy.
Press    in the Formation menu to open up the Change Position menu and adjust the positions of your deployed troopers.
????
Attack of the Best Fitness Friends!
This is for my brother!
Duh. I totally knew that.
I'll show you what I'm made of!
Outta my way!
The deal is off. Good day!
Go!
Whoa, that was Super Lucky!
I HAVE BATTLE!
They spit up and throw Spike Balls at foes. They seem to find the shells of Koopa Troopas and Koopa Paratroopas to be easy targets.
Treevil
+1 BP and STACHE for each level up.
Mario and Luigi take turns kicking a green shell using  and , respectively.
Emergency Guard
Dark Fawful shoots a warping bullet. Your best defense depends on its direction. Make note of where it's coming from before it warps!
If you're facing many Scutlets, they tend to line up and all tackle at once, so pay attention to the timing and jump to dodge.
Wisdurm X
When used as a group attack, the enemy will be thrown high, and then an ally will be thrown at the foe to deal even more damage.
Deny
Touch the Profile button while in the Formation or Items menus to see detailed information for the unit you have selected.
In the Change Placement menu, you can view enemy placement on the bottom screen. It's important to place your units in a way that gives you the advantage!
Watch Your Step
Dry Bones
HIYAAH!
Well, then you must already know that jumping on them will hurt you.
It's just the proud Minion spirit!
Stay behind me, young Master!
Looks like you were up against lots of melee enemies...
Flying troopers are strong against melee enemies, so you might try putting as many of them as you can at the front of your formation.
Get ready!
Defeated all nine enemies!
Post-battle EXP increased by %!
MORTON LOSE...HURT. MORE LIKE...HURTON.
Damage dealt to all enemies!
Midbus!
He is having a big punch!
Mario!
Oh non...
Reduces the damage you take from enemy attacks.
The green shell speeds up as they kick it, so pay attention to the timing of your button presses!
There are certain behaviors that can help you predict who an enemy will attack. Try to spot any and all tells!
Easy Mode
Beating Blizzard Midbus
The star-energy gun will fire massive spinning stars. Aim at the red star and try to punch it!
If there are fewer than three Scutlets remaining, they will no longer use this tactic, so it's good to reduce their numbers as much as you can.
Rally
There you'll find info about a unit's abilities and strengths—and perhaps even some other tidbits you won't find anywhere else...
For example, if the enemy has Melee troopers on the front line and Flying troopers in the back, it's a good idea to place Flying troopers in the front and Ranged troopers in the back.
A Gift from Iggy
I don't think so!
But did you know that some of them have spines all over?
You'll get hurt attacking those from any direction.
So, c'mon guys! Show 'em your miniony spirit!
I'll be your wall, Lord Junior!
I've got your back, Lord Junior!
All nine allies survived!
Post-battle EXP increased by %!
MORTON HAVE LAST GASP!
Damage dealt to all allies!
I was watching that monster attack and noticed something...
I think you can deal a counterattack by pressing  at just the right time!
They attack by spinning the drill on their mouth. Their powerful charge makes it seem like they're sliding across the ground.
Flying EXP Bean S
HP Drumstick
Corporal Paraplonk
Increases your Badge energy gained by a small amount.
Hammer
Finish up by kicking the green shell after a pass! Succeed at all necessary steps to earn an Excellent rating.
Alpha Kretin
Select JUMP to stomp on an enemy and inflict damage.
Hints
Increases the POW of a trooper and their surrounding allies.
Within your ranks, there will be certain units with special characteristics that make them strong or weak against certain opponents.
Snack Time
Beware Big Eaters
I know you're very tough, young master. But even small injuries can add up.
Ah, well. I was hoping it was an actual plan or weapon of some sort.
No matter...we can work with this!
I'll protect you, Lord Junior!
MORTON PROTECT SMALL BOWSER!
Defeated all nine enemies!
All nine allies survived!
Post-battle EXP increased by %!
Damage dealt to all enemy Melee troopers!
The longer he is holding back his punch, the bigger the hurting to your face!
If you are snacking on a punch held to the very last second...
Defense power. The higher your DEF, the less damage you take.
Parry
Whoa, a new formation! Check it out!
Increases the power of your Lucky Hits.
Beta Kretin
This type of attack is especially effective against flying units.
Easy Attack Mode
Counting Borp Inhalations
Press  when the circle appears right over the character.
On the Formation screen, you can highlight a character to view more detailed information about them.
Showdown
Cavi Cape Chaos
Dried Blooper
Blah, blah! I got it. Now, get outta the way!
Yeah! I'm actually starting to believe in our spirit. C'mon, guys!
What's up, big guy? You wanna say something?
I'm here for you!
No messin' around. Let's go!
Brawl points. You need BP to perform Brawl Attacks.
A mysterious lady with an air of sophistication. Only some cold ice can soothe the aches that bother her.
Three Koopa Paratroopa brothers who live for each other and their duty. No one stands a chance against their perfectly syncopated brotherly blows!
These Minions love dark, spooky places. They're also fond of using Discord to damage enemies and lower their SPEED.
Rolling Riot
 LV
Reduces the amount of BP required to perform Bros. Attacks.
Blizzard Midbus
HAMMER Attacks
Broozer
Watch for Air Cheep to puff up and start spinning, and then hit its cork with your hammer. Try to finish off the Air Cheep before it can return to its original form.
When you successfully attack an enemy you're strong against, CRITICAL will appear above the opponent's head.
Shy Guy Swarm
The Omega-onion?!
Magikoopa (Green)
Hey! This way!
Let's do this!
START BUTTON PAUSE! ...ALSO CHECK BATTLE LENGTH.
BATTLE TOO HARD? SMALL BOWSER PAUSE AND RUN!
WANT VIEW GUIDE? SMALL BOWSER PRESS PAUSE!
...PAUSE BUTTON USEFUL. SMALL BOWSER TRY NOW!
My turn!
Looks like you were up against all types of enemies...
Be sure to balance your own squad with all types of troopers, and place them in an advantageous order. Against these enemies, you might try melee troopers up front, ranged in the middle, and flying in the back.
Into the fray, young Master!
Let's go for a ride, boss!
Spike Blop
During battle, when Mario and Luigi deal damage to enemies, they will build up Badge Energy, which can be used to fill the Badge Meter.
Calorite
To avoid attacks from Air Cheeps, try to pay attention to which way their mouths are facing while they're in midair.
Beehoss will heal other enemies in battle, so it's a good idea to take it out first.
Avoiding Fawflopper's Attacks
Volleybomb
Mean Minions
Behold...my SPIRIT!
MORTON USE FIRST OFFICER COMMAND!
Whoa! You're a big fan of the START button. I get it.
Uh...so, is that it?
Please stay back. I've got this!
Giddyup!
No one can pilot that thing like you. Can I get a ride sometime?
If you are holding back your punch to the last second before pressing , that is BADNESS!
The worst kind of bad badness! Do not have naughtiness and press  at that timing!
A Goomba with dreams of grandeur. He's quite good at dodging attacks and avoiding being lectured.
One of the legendary original captains who saved Bowser and the Minions from catastrophe. He feigns indifference, but cares a lot more than he lets on.
Scutlet
The better the attack rating, the more Badge Energy you will receive. Once the Badge Meter is full, it will convert to Badge Stock.
A bean that gives 3,000 EXP to Flying troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
You can also use Vacuum to suck up Honey and restore some of Bowser's HP.
Which Way is Fawflant Facing?
If you leave Sneeds alone for long enough, they'll turn into Flifits! Take them out quickly before they become a handful.
Sneak Attack
Spooky Masks
Kamek
Ewww!
I'm not joking around!
What's that, big guy?
...MORTON FINISH.
MORTON BLOCK!
I just need to keep crashing into them to win, right?
Like, just knock out that guy in the back, yeah?
Pfft. It's almost too easy!
You can keep going! 
Quit
Continue
Private Goomp
Built-up power punching is very full of naughty badness, yes...
But building up too much power and failing, that is full of yum...
Punches built up to the last second are full of the risk.
An elite Shy Guy with big dreams. His cowardly nature is great for dodging.
Those hard shells aren't just for show! But these pitiful fellas are awfully jealous of flying Para-Beetles.
Trees that lived for hundreds of years until they became monstrous. As they are withering, they burn easily when attacked with fire.
A beautiful harmony of green shell and white wings. They focus on their target and shoot straight for the head!
K. Paratroopa (Red)
Junker Can
Sergeant Guy
Mega Tackle
Coddle
You can switch out the units in your squad in the Squad Formation menu.
Choombas Charge!
PRESS  AND MORTON PROTECT! OR TAP SCREEN. EASY FOR MORTON.
All right, buddy.
Stay behind me, kid.
You ready for this?
You're just getting warmed up. 
Quit
Continue
Bros. points. You need BP to perform Bros. Attacks.
Their calcium-deficient bodies are weak. They despise losing to Koopa Troopas.
HP 5%↑
Napse
If you make contact with an enemy, a battle will start!
Destroy Dark Bowser
Defeating Durmite and Wisdurm
Smack Back Attack
Hit a block overhead to earn a mushroom or a weapon. If a mushroom comes out, it will heal you. If a weapon comes out, it will deal damage to enemies.
Parry
To change the units shown on the top screen, select the units you wish to add in from the bottom screen.
Underground Gossip
I'm commandeering this squad!
Hey! I can't see anything! Get outta my way!
Bahaha, didn't think so!
I call that attack the Whomping Wallop. It really packs...something, doesn't it?
One more time? How about it? 
Quit
Continue
Chuboomba
Midbus! Now is the time for striking!
One of the legendary original captains who saved Bowser and the Minions from catastrophe. Charges into action with gumption and stylish eyebrows.
Claw
Swoop
There are fixed buttons to control Mario and Luigi.
If you initiate an encounter by jumping on an enemy, they will receive damage at the start of battle.
Pay attention to the color of Napse's projectiles to see who is being targeted. Red for Mario, green for Luigi.
Charging Champ
Press  each time the moving cursor appears over the target.
When used as a group attack, mushrooms and weapons will also affect troopers other than you and your target. 
First Officer commands are special commands that only a First Officer can use. First Officers will learn these as they grow stronger.
You can view the status of characters on the bottom screen when switching them in and out of your squad.
MORTON STRONG LIKE WALL!
...BUT EVEN WALL FALL DOWN SOMETIME.
YOU WANT MORTON STOP BEING WALL? PRESS .
This could start getting suspicious... 
Quit
Continue
SPIRIT Bean
+1 BP and HORN for each level up.
Snawful
Use  to perform actions as Mario,  to perform actions as Luigi, and  to perform actions as Bowser.
DEF Pep
Wiggler
Defeating Junker
If there are two or more Napses, they'll work with other enemies to attack, so remember the color of the projectiles when they were fired and try to dodge!
Flifit
Kaboom Bash
Each time a button input is successfully performed, the number of projectiles increases, all of which are eventually fired at once.
The points at which a character can take their turn in battle varies depending on the unit.
First Officer commands use up a First Officer's CP. When taking part in consecutive battles, CP will recover a bit between each fight.
Looks like you were up against lots of ranged enemies...
You could try placing more melee troopers on the front line, but the enemy melee units look like a tough match. Try countering by placing some flying troopers up front in your formation.
What? You're just saying that.
The fallen ally has been revived!
Mario.
That padding makes for high POW and DEF. They tend to go overboard with their brawn and are weak against Mechakoopas.
A rare type of Boo with a tail. Getting hit with the swinging tail really smarts!
Larry Rally
Big Bow
+1 POW for each level up. Increases the recovery power of drumsticks.
Air Cannon
When it's your turn, select a command block to perform an action.
POW 10%↑ and DEF 10%↑
When you destroy the Air Cannon, it will reconstruct itself the following turn if any enemies remain. You'll have to try to defeat all opponents in the battle at once.
When Durmite's health gets low, it tries to suck up Bowser's energy with a straw to recover. Attack the straw to stop it from doing that.
Air Bash
The higher the character's SPEED, the more actions they will be able to perform in battle.
Group Attacks
Keep talking...
Here we go!
If you stomp on this guy's spikes, it'll hurt.
I'm serious; jumping on it would be very bad.
Call for Backup
Giant Shield
Parabones
Increases the power of Punch and Flame attacks.
Goomba Storm
Select a block by moving  right or left. Press the character's button to confirm.
Bowser takes a big ol' breath and then breathes fire. Hold down  to deal continuous damage.
Badge Stock and Badge Effects
All stats 5%↑
Dark Star Hints
Defeating Durmite
If Durmite eats you with a web attack, watch to see where you'll be spit out, and jump!
Even if you knock Mechawful's head off, it can still revive itself if enough time passes. Use Vacuum to suck up the head before that can happen!
Treevils are Weak to Fire
Rocket Headbutt
Captain Commands
Bahaha! Is that all you got?
...
Whoa! Do you mean that?
Instead, what you ought to do is use the hammer.
Want to hear how to use it? 
No.
Yes.
Mechawful
Magikoopas dressed in red. They use their magic wands to raise a nearby unit's POW!
They look like a hermit crab and live on the shore. They're small, but they hurt a lot to step on.
Shell Shock
Tank
Increases the power of Brawl Attacks.
Shy Guy Squad
Defeat all enemies to win. You can start by hitting the JUMP or PUNCH block to attack.
This attack can deal damage to all enemies in battle. It also has a chance of inflicting the Burn status.
EVASION 10%↑ and HP 10%↑
A bean that gives 3,000 EXP to Melee troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Fawflopper
Leaf Guy
Coalbits Powering Choombas
The Final Battle! Dark Star Core Hints!
If there's a Biffidus nearby, sometimes Durmite will eat it and spit out its spear. Watch to see which way the spear is facing and try to avoid it.
Try not to defend too soon when Mechawful drops and attacks from the air. Wait until the last moment before crouching!
Wisdurm
Spin Cycle
First Officer Commands
It shouldn't have come to this.
Haha! I knew it!
Their constant movement masks their lack of power. Just who are those mischievous eyes targeting?!
They bear a strong resemblance to Pokeys and share their weakness to boomerang attacks.
Lord Bowser's only son. Rumored to be especially strong against Magikoopas.
A mysterious creature from the Beanbean Kingdom. Chain Stomp is its specialty, and it despises Spear Guys.
The ultimate BFF form, realized when all members join together and take Malatone Formula:X.
Banzai Bill Thrill
Donut
Paragoomba
Increases the power of Lucky Hits.
Retry
Koopa Corps
Don't forget to hold down  once Bowser starts breathing fire!
POW 10%↑ and SPIRIT 10%↑
Dark Trashure
A bean that increases your SPEED by 1.
Shy Guy (Blue)
Toothy
Spin to Win
Challenges
Information for the squad about to go into battle can be found on the top screen during quest selection. Peruse using  and .
Right away! I'll take care of it!
Fine, do your own thing.
YES! That's what I'm talking about!
Bowser Memory MX
Sea Pipe Statue
Rotund Minions resembling Goombas. They're extra tough...maybe because of all that hard candy they eat.
Zero
Flying EXP Beans DX
Bob-omb Blitz
Sneed
ACCURACY 10%↑ and LUCK 10%↑
A drumstick that gives 1,000 EXP to Bowser Jr. Cannot be given to other characters.
Magic Rod
Whomping Wallop
Launch a foe into the air, and then pierce them with your horns or spikes when they land.
Critical Hits
This allows you to see the attributes and skills of units going into battle.
Heh. Can't wait to see what happens next....
Let's do this!
Looks like you were up against waves of flying enemies and other reinforcements...
It's a good idea to place some flying troopers up front and some ranged troopers in the rear of your formation.
Also, Spikes are known to be pretty accurate throwing Spike Balls at the shells of Koopa Troopas and Koopa Paratroopas...
Ally POW Up!
Would you do it for 20,000 coins?
If you hold it too long, though, you'll fail, so time it well.
H
King's Hoard
Magikoopa Mob
SPEED 5%↑ and HP 15%↑
A drumstick that gives 100 EXP to Bowser Jr. Cannot be given to other characters.
Protobatter Keeps Growing
This attack spits flames to damage enemies in front.
Press  when you first hit an enemy. Then press  again when the launched enemy lands to ram into them.
If you bring several troopers of the same type into battle, you will be able to do group attacks, which are more powerful than regular attacks.
Spike Damage
Stop and Drop
Units being deployed can be changed from the Formation menu.
First Battle!
Ooh, I DARE you...
Enemy POW Up!
I'll make an example of you.
Mario!
Lord Bowser's only son. Rumored to be especially strong against Magikoopas.
Their backs are well protected by sharp spikes and a solid shell. Try to dispel their spike attacks as much as possible.
Unstoppable when they're off their chains. Difficult to control and highly destructive.
Hammer
King's Feast
Broggy Bonker
DEF 15%↑ and HP 5%↑
Vacuum Flifit's Petals
Press  quickly to build up power. The more power you build, the more fire you can spew at your enemies.
When used as a group attack, the foe will be launched toward an ally, and the two allies will keep hitting the foe back and forth.
Units are broken up into three different types.
Shield
Ally POW Down!
Think this through.
Kaley
King's Power
Beefy Bro
Chain Chomp
POW 20%↑
Dark Star X
A charred drumstick from Morton. It tastes pretty gross...
Junker X
Vacuuming Toothies
If you're having trouble performing attacks successfully, try using the DEMO or PRACTICE features.
When used as a group attack, all troopers will blast fire at the same time.
Melee troopers fight with close combat. They're strong against Ranged troopers and weak against Flying troopers.
Thwomp Thump
Take it!
You have  seconds...
Enemy POW Down!
What are your terms?
Same deal on defense! You can't stomp on the spikes to counterattack!
They may look cute, but don't let your guard down. They are weak against fire attacks.
POW Beans
King's Grace
Suave Bro
Mario and Luigi get inside a pipe and stomp enemies as it spins. Try to predict who's on the bottom so you can press the corresponding button.
Goomba Tower
Press  during an enemy attack, and Bowser will crouch down and guard with his shell.
Gives Bowser Jr. +1 SPIRIT.
Gives Bowser Jr. +1 SPEED.
Mawful Mole's Stone Throws
You can predict whether a Drillbit Crab will attack Mario or Luigi by watching its eyes, so pay attention before it makes a move.
If you still can't quite get the hang of it, try enabling Easy Attack Mode.
Flying troopers soar above the battlefield. They're strong against Melee troopers and weak against Ranged troopers.
Malatone Formula:X
Wimps Unite
Until we all explode!
Ally DEF Up!
Larry
You can now add bonus points to a status attribute of your choice.
You need to defend with the hammer.
Should I explain? 
Nah.
Please!
The spikes on their shells can be used for both defense and offense. They seem to hate fighting against Lakitus.
King's Blessing
Stoic Bro
If you think it's Mario, press . If your guess is Luigi, press . Watch the pipe closely as you decide which button to press.
Doing so will protect Bowser from falling objects by repelling them with his shell spikes.
Dark Mechawful
You can tell whether Fawflant is going to target Mario or Luigi based on who he's facing before he begins his zig-zag attack.
If you leave Fawfulcopter alone, it will continue to summon enemies. Try using Vacuum to disable this tactic.
Also, be careful when avoiding its attack—if you jump and land on it, you'll take damage.
To learn more about these options, read "Watch and Learn" and "Easy Attack Mode" in the Guide.
Ranged troopers like to throw things. They're strong against Flying troopers and weak against Melee troopers.
Malatone Charge
On the Beach
Come try again when you grow up!
Enemy DEF Up!
Argh! I'm still mad!
I'm glad we could make a deal.
Magikoopas dressed in white. They use their magic wands to raise a nearby unit's DEF!
Badge Boost
Spiny
Wendy
If you attack Durmite when she's small, her magical rod will charge. Then, when the rod is fully charged, she'll transform into Wisdurm.
Bowser Memory L uses a Mushroom to help Bowser Memory M. Choose the order in which you defeat them wisely!
If you're having trouble avoiding attacks, try using a Boo Biscuit.
Durmite
Knowing the relationship between the unit types can mean the difference between victory and defeat. Try to remember the Power Triangle!
A command that Wendy can use. Creates two clone allies to join the battle on your behalf. Cannot be used until at least one ally is defeated.
Cyclone Breath
Your gameplay records for Bowser Jr.'s Journey can be found in the Records menu.
Malatone Formula:X Meets the Minions
Watch out...your enemies will do everything they can to target Bowser Jr. with their commands.
If you find yourself running out of CP, try adding Kamek or Wendy as first officer—they can help restore your CP in battle.
Ally DEF Down!
You're smart, you know that?
Goomba
An elite Koopa Troopa with big dreams. The bucket on his head gives him a tough defense.
Super EXP Bean L
Melee EXP Beans DX
Lucky and Good
A bean that gives 1,000 EXP to Melee troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
A drumstick that gives 10 EXP to Bowser Jr. Cannot be given to other characters.
After transforming, Wisdurm is a big challenge. Try to avoid using attacks that deal continuous damage to keep her from transforming for as long as you can.
DIZZY is an extremely dangerous state to be in. Recover quickly by using a Refreshing Herb or a badge power.
This will make you immune to damage for a limited time, allowing you to take a breather and observe your enemies.
Straw
Makes enemy attacks easier to avoid. Special Skills still cannot be avoided, so be careful!
A command that Lemmy can use. It can deflect two enemy attacks, but doesn't work on Special Skills.
Note that any active clones will disappear if Wendy is defeated.
Fitness Vortex
You can receive medals and items by fulfilling certain conditions.
Recruit 20 Melee troopers
Friend or Foe?
Beach Fire
When you're up against all enemy types in a difficult battle, remember to take advantage of your commands.
Enemy DEF Down!
This is a win-win.
Deny
Super EXP Bean M
Captain Koopa Troopa
Nooz
BP Aplenty
Alarm Bob-omb
A bean that gives 100 EXP to Melee troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Junker
Once her rod runs out of power, Wisdurm will go back to her regular state.
The location of the coin that appears when Bowser Memory M grabs a Star and dashes toward you provides a hint about the next body slam's direction.
Throw a huge weapon and deal heavy damage to an opponent!
DEF Up
Press  when the circle appears right over the character.
Press  right as your unit blocks an attack to counterattack.
Challenge yourself to set all sorts of records!
Recruit 20 Flying troopers
Adrift and Alone
Looks like you were up against lots of melee and ranged enemies...
Try putting a good number of flying troopers at the front of your squad, and a few melee troopers at the back.
Take a careful look at your formation and remember to take advantage of your commands in battle. You're so close!
Ally SPEED Up!
It's a done deal.
HORN shows a character's lucky horn power. A bigger number means more lucky hits and better deals when shopping.
Rally
Borp
If you land attacks on Wisdurm's true form, you'll deplete her rod's power slightly, but attacking the rod itself is a faster way to go.
Bowser Memory L will always jump over Mario and Luigi when running from Boo. Watch out for Boo's body slam!
Beware of Scutlet Line Tackles!
Aim a unit's body or weapon at an enemy and crash into them with great force to deal damage to the foe in front.
Press  when the moving cursor appears over the target.
ACCURACY Up
Win by defeating the opposing captain. Do so, and all of your Minions who battled will gain EXP.
Recruit 20 Ranged troopers
A Mighty Melee
More Malatone Formula:X... Yes...let it flow...muhahaha!
Snack Time
Sword
Urchin
Watch out when the tip of Wisdurm's rod glows red—that means she's about to fire a beam that will switch Mario and Luigi's positions!
Watch Drillbit Crab's Eyes
Press  right when your trooper leans all the way back.
When used as a group attack, the cursor will grow even bigger and can damage anything caught within its scope.
EVASION Up
Minions will grow stronger when they accrue enough EXP to gain a level.
Records and Challenges
Earn a formation bonus
Be Leery of Lightning
All right! Let's work those abs!
All right, Lord Junior... We'll be facing off against Shy Guys in this next battle.
They are ranged troopers, which means they can hit you with a turnip from anywhere!
Can't hit me! Ha!
MMMM! WE'RE GETTING STRONGER!
Mega Tackle
Showdown
Iron Fist
Mario and Luigi take turns jumping out of a magic window to stomp foes. Press the corresponding button for whoever jumps out.
Bowser always has access to two kinds of defense while enemies are attacking.
When Wisdurm uses her rod to shrink Mario and Luigi, you can still counterattack with Hammers. But watch out! You can't run and have Hammers ready at the same time.
When used as a group attack, all troopers will line up and attack at the same time.
Discord
If you feel that enemies are getting too strong, fight foes that are easy for you to defeat, and proceed once you've increased your level.
Saving in Bowser Jr.'s Journey
Use beans to fortify 50 times
I don't like your tone!
What's that about turnips?
Looks like you were up against lots of melee and flying enemies.
Try putting your own flying troopers up front, and ranged troopers in the rear!
This is actually kinda fun!
All enemy attributes increased!
Tee hee!
The great and beloved king of the Minions! Father of Bowser Jr. He possesses more charisma and destructive power than a trillion Marios.
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. Uses his racket to send flaming balls flying with impressive accuracy.
One of the legendary original captains who helped save Bowser and the Minions from catastrophe. His jokes are bad, but his rhymes are rad.
Smack Back Attack
Shy Guy Swarm
Boomerang
Punch
If Mario jumps out. press . If it's Luigi, press . If they jump out together, press  and  at the same time.
Captain Boo
Select HAMMER to strike an enemy and inflict damage.
Bowser punches with , and uses his shell with . Punch mainly guards against frontal attacks. Shell defends against overhead attacks.
Gives Bowser Jr. +1 DEF.
Gives Bowser Jr. +1 POW.
Fawflant
Watch Tenderling's Movements!
Hit 'Em Up
Formation Menu
Defeat 300 enemies
Come on!
Ahahaha!
Oh! He's listening...sort of. Now's my chance!
EAT WIND, LOSERS!
This monster lifts a leg before it attacks, see?
We almost forgot.
The badges on thy persons will lead thee to fortune...
But to do so, thou shalt build thy meter to fullness.
Dost thou wish to hear more? 
No thanks.
Yes, please!
Un!
Deux!
Trois!
Stupid little pests! Time to get burned!
Those Hammers are deadly from a distance. Their Rain of Pain attack is to be feared!
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. She has a powerful boomerang ring attack and is pretty scary when she's angry.
Charging Champ
Volleybomb
Battleship
Use the Hammer to attack spiky foes and other enemies that can't be jumped on.
Dark Satellmite X
Shy Guy (Pink)
Super Stomp
A command that Iggy can use. Temporarily shrinks opponents.
Enemy Information
Recruit 20 spiky allies
YOU MISSED! Bahaha!
Glad you asked! So, there are three different types of troopers.
Looks like you were up against lots of flying enemies...
Ranged troopers are strong against flying enemies, so be sure to add some to your squad. Also, you might want a few melee troopers in the back of your formation to counter the enemy's ranged types.
Blown away allies have returned to your squad!
When it attacks Mario, it lifts its right leg, and when it goes for Luigi, it lifts its left!
Hmm... Thou art most dedicated.
For thy honesty, we shall give help...
STOP! PARFAIT!
Lord Bowser's only son. Rumored to be especially strong against Magikoopas.
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. With immensely high HP, he's the toughest of the group.
Kaboom Bash
Fountain
Flying EXP Bean DX
Super EXP Bean S
Flame
Jump
Beehoss
A bean that gives 10 EXP to Melee troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Increases the DEF of a trooper and their surrounding allies.
Hurt or Heal
A skill that only Kamek (blue) can use. Stealthily appear behind the enemy captain for a sneak attack!
All status attributes decrease while units are in this state.
Squad Formation
Receive 100 EXCELLENT ratings
Ooh... WHY DO YOU HAVE TO BE LIKE YOU ARE?
Ranged troopers use throwing weapons and can fire projectiles.
Looks like you were up against lots of melee and ranged enemies...
Try putting some flying troopers at the front of your squad, and some melee troopers at the back.
HAND IT OVER!
Captain Goomba
I abide...
You have zee mastery of zee block tricks, oui.
Zis battle is OVER!
Air Bash
Banana
Charred Spicy Drumstick
Return to Title Screen
SPEED Pep
Bob-omb
Shy Guy (Red)
When Mawful Mole is holding a stone, pay attention to its glasses. If they're covered with dirt, it will throw the stone overhead.
Aim for an opponent's head from up high, and then crash into them at a high speed!
Press  when the circle appears right over the character.
If Kamek is discovered before attacking, his POW will decrease. Rumor has it he's more easily detected by troop types that he's weak against...
Dismissing Units
Clear quests 50 times
How dare you!
Flying troopers can take to the air and attack from above.
Looks like you were up against some ranged enemies...
When you're facing ranged enemies, it's a good idea to put some melee troopers in the back of your formation.
However, don't neglect your own ranged troopers! You'll need them to help you take on any flying enemies that may appear. Remember, you can always check enemy profiles before the battle begins.
Join us and you can really shine!
You've temporarily lost some Captain abilities!
Hmm... Thou art most dedicated.
For thy honesty, we shall give help...
We begin right zis second! Zis is showtime, oui!
Alors! Let us restart battle!
Teach Broggy what happens when one is naughty, honh?
Turns left: 0. Battle terminated.
Rocket Headbutt
EVASION 5%↑
Moon
DEF Bean
Swing your tail to deal damage to surrounding enemies.
Press  as your trooper slams into their enemy.
Your Minions will attack opponents as soon as it's their turn to fight.
Profile
Recruit 50 Minions
UNFORGIVABLE!
And Melee troopers are your ground force, charging fearlessly into battle.
Enemy ACCURACY Down!
You won't regret it.
We need backup! Hurry!
Ah! Such impudence! Thou ask for thine meter to be filled completely?
Now, I tell you about zee Vacuum Block, non? 
No need.
Go ahead.
Zis is wonderful! Zis is a thing of beauty! I have nothing to say!
Broggy, he is now at your mercy, honh? Naughty little Broggy!
You practice zese moves you have just learned, oui?
Its burp bullets are strong in more ways than one. It's actually a plant, so fire attacks really burn.
They're ever ready for battle, with shuriken in hand. They supposedly like to discipline foes with a tail.
Their bodies are covered with dangerous spikes. They won't join your side...mostly because they can't leave the water.
Spin Cycle
Planter
Trace the Magikoopas' magic sparks as they form and Bowser will breathe fire to charge them up.
When the Badge Meter is full, it converts to Badge Stock, which appears on the right side of the bottom screen during your turn.
If you use Vacuum to suck up Flifit's flower petals, it will be weaker and easier to fight.
Stonk's Weakness
Press  as your trooper slams into the enemy.
When used as a group attack, troopers will line up and crash into the enemy, one after another.
An opponent is defeated when their HP has been reduced to zero.
Details
Ally EVASION Up!
What kind of hourly rate are you looking for?
 arrived as backup!
What luck!  also came to help!
Thou shalt fill the rest on thine own!
Hardship buildeth character!
INCROYABLE!
Listen, Monsieur Turtle Bits! You should build flame power like you do with zee punch. Zen hold down  when it flashes!
Goombas who soar the sky with grace. With a spin they can do a Cranium Crush.
Spin to Win
Wall
Stonk
Slide  left and right to position Mario and Luigi at the falling meteor's point of impact.
The more charged up the sparks are, the more damage the Magikoopas' magic will inflict.
There are times when certain enemy attacks will cause status changes in battle.
Tap Badge Stock during your turn to use its Badge Effect.
Watch Trashure's Mouth
When used as a group attack, troopers stack up and spin their tails together, dealing a high amount of damage to all surrounding enemies. Particularly effective against flying enemies.
Favorites ★
Bone Storm
Magikoopa (Red)
I confess that I am slightly impressed, Lord Junior.
Nevertheless... Onward!
As I was saying, Ranged troopers can throw weapons.
So they're perfect for fighting against Flying troopers.
Looks like you were up against some tough enemies...
Try adding Iggy to your squad and using the Super Counter command. It will deal counter damage to your enemies based on how much damage Bowser Jr. has taken.
Looks like you were up against lots of melee and flying enemies...
Try adding some flying troopers to your squad, with a few ranged troopers in the back.
Also, all of the enemy captains are flying types, so you might have better luck if your captain is a ranged trooper.
Enemy EVASION Up!
You won't have to work weekends.
Enemy reinforcements arrived!
I abide...
Oui, zis is zee power of zee amazing Vacuum Block!
Monsieur! Press zee  over and over and inhale moi!
If you hold down  until zee last second, your flame will be tremendous, honh?
And zee damage, too! Now take zee deep breath...
You two guys have to jump and grab me!
When you latch on to me, hold down the button!
If you let the button go, you'll fall, so be careful!
Whomping Wallop
Chain Chomp
To swing their hammer and knock the meteor into enemies, press  for Mario and  for Luigi.
Hint messages will appear while Easy Mode is activated, or if you are defeated and choose to retry a battle.
When a status change takes effect, you may have your actions limited, or your HP may decrease.
Badge Effects can only be used during your turn. You can choose a command even after using one, so try using Badge Effects before using a command.
Dark Star
A bean that gives 1,000 EXP to Ranged troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Magifoofa
Brute Force Battle
Bahaha! They look like us!
Looks like you were up against lots of flying and ranged enemies...
Try adding some ranged troopers to the front of your squad, and some melee troopers in the back.
Also, both of the enemy captains are flying types, so you might have better luck if your captain is a ranged trooper.
Ally EVASION Down!
You've got a good eye.
The meter builds when you guys perform a successful attack.
Mario! Luigi! First make the meter get full!
I cannot pass zee time, for I am training zee big monsieur about zee block tricks, oui?
Ah, one more thing... Flame targets all zee foes before you.
And if you hold down  to spit fire longer, you deal more damage!
When you see many foes, use zat flame! Zat is basic, honh?
Keep your eyes on those cool moves. They pride themselves on their speed.
SPIRIT Drumsticks
SPEED Drumsticks
If you keep succeeding until the very end and get an Excellent rating, the meteor will crack and an item will appear! It's exciting to see what it will be.
Mario and Luigi can also perform actions during enemy attacks. Either bro can do a jump guard by crouching down.
Choose the Hint command block to view hints.
These effects will heal over time. You can recover from status effects faster by using a Refreshing Herb.
Pendril
A bean that gives 100 EXP to Ranged troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
A bean that increases your POW by 1.
A command that Roy can use. He will ride a Banzai Bill into all enemies to deal a high amount of damage.
Extra Spice
Keeheehee...
They don't look so tough. Lemme at 'em!
Looks like you were up against lots of flying enemies...
Ranged troopers are strong against flying enemies, so be sure to add some to your squad. Also, Red Para-Biddybuds are supposed to be strong against Fawfulcoptors...
Enemy EVASION Down!
Let's shift some paradigms.
The meter's full! And...something came out of it.
Maybe you should tap it. Do you wanna try? 
Later.
Why not?
Allow moi to go back outside. Do not bother, s'il vous plaît!
Melee EXP Bean DX
Para-Beetle
Press either character button to jump.
Hint messages contain valuable information, as well as tricks for defeating enemies. When you see a hint, try putting it to the test!
A command that Bowser Jr. can use when he's a Flying type. Summons a shy guy fleet to attack from the air! Damages allies and enemies alike.
A Creepy Ball
Girl, this is MY look. Back off!
Is this where you belong?
Monsieur Turtle Bits, you inhale like zee tornado...
ACCURACY 5%↑
Increase the Plasmeter by using the Jump Helmet Bros. Attack until you fail. If you get a gold medal, you'll win a special item!
Back
Pokey
You can avoid enemy attacks by jumping at the right moment. Time your jumps to land on enemies and deal damage as well.
A drumstick that gives 3,000 EXP to Bowser Jr. Cannot be given to other characters.
Shy Guy (Yellow)
When Junker breaks out the bucket, things like Bob-ombs or Poison Mushrooms will come out of it. Watch what comes out closely!
Stop the three cursors by pressing  to determine where the attack will land. Try to aim for enemies and avoid allies.
The Mightiest Bros.
Choomba
Glugggghhh...
I don't like the looks of this... But we can handle it, Lord Junior!
Ah, this is a group attack. It's when multiple units attack at once.
Looks like you were up against some Treevils...
Try adding some squad members who can perform fire attacks, like Fire Stalking Piranha Plants. And remember that you can always use Morton's Shield command to help Bowser Jr. survive a tough encounter.
Some CP has been restored!
OK. You're qualified.
A new entry was added to your Formation Menu guide.
Buzzy Beetle
Press  just as you stomp down. Time all of your attacks well and aim for an Excellent rating.
Boo
Basics #1: Command and Attack
In another move, Thwomp blindfolds one of the bros by placing a bucket over his head. Jump and adjust your movements to avoid being crushed!
Defeating Stone Blooper
Knock an opponent into the air to deal heavy damage. This attack also lowers the foe's defense.
A Goomba's Gumption
Hmph. They couldn't beat us...so they decided to BE us. How odd.
Of course, you'll need multiple units of the same type to activate it...
Enemies who have been poisoned with Malatone Formula:X are immune to the Deny command, and will also charge directly at your squad captain!
To defeat them, make good use of the Snack Time and Rally commands at just the right time.
How much do you want?
What they lack in power, they make up for with agility and sheer numbers. An easy target for mechanically-inclined enemies.
Scheming
You can now enhance your characters!
SPIRIT Beans
Slide Bowser up and down to knock the attacking Koopa Troopas back into the enemy ranks.
