Basics #2: Damage and Defeat Foes
Bowser got chubby! Delve into the Flab Zone inside Bowser's body!
Rump Command
Rainbow Rank
You can't equip two accessories at once.
Mario, Luigi, and Bowser Too!
Select a box on the bonus card...
Four Marios and Luigis enter eight barrels. Take a good look and remember who's in which barrel at the start!
The Koopa Troopas will speed up and increase in number, so try to move Bowser quickly to knock them all into enemies.
Attacking with JUMP
Princess Peach has finally been found, but some enemies nabbed her! Follow after them and save her!
Leg Outpost
Turning a New Page DX
To fire the cannon, press  when a barrel with Mario in it aims at an enemy, or  when a barrel with Luigi in it does the same.
Battle Basics and Battle Actions
Hold down  during enemy attacks to guard. This will decrease the amount of damage you receive.
Princess Peach is saved! Now, to find a way out of Bowser's body...
Nose Deck
Doing It Right DX
Oh, but listen! If you switch your badge combo, your meter resets, OK, guys?
You'll be pretty bummed out if you reset a maxed-out meter, won't you?
Oh, and you can also switch badge combos during battles. Don't forget that!
How foolish of me. How wise you both are.
In that case, please enjoy the joys of commerce.
Watch and Learn
Mario and Luigi lose HP when they are damaged by attacks. If either of them reaches 0 HP, they will faint and be unable to move.
All monster attacks can be avoided, so there is no need to use Emergency Guard if you are confident you can dodge in time.
Bowser's been blown out of his castle. He seems to have landed underground...
A Journey to Remember DX
A travesty! No bonus card for you this time!
Basics #3: Pay Attention to your HP
If Mario's and Luigi's HP both reach 0, they'll faint. That means it's game over!
Try using Emergency Guard for enemy attacks that you don't think you can otherwise avoid.
Mario and Luigi head to an emergency meeting at Peach's Castle.
Mario and company made it out of Bowser's body. Hurry to where the Dark Star was sealed up!
Sweet Parting DX
Bowser acts alone, which means that if his HP ever reaches zero, it's game over.
Dodge
Use  to perform actions as Mario, and  to perform actions as Luigi.
The Dark Star's been stolen! Is Peach's Castle OK?
A rare block from Broque Monsieur. In battle, Bowser inhales stuff!
Big News! DX
How regrettable. I shall endeavor once more.
If you get a game over, you'll have to start the battle over from the beginning.
Jump Guard
A blockade appeared on the bridge to Peach's Castle, blocking all entry! What in the world to do...
Mario got inhaled into Bowser's body! What next?
Calling All the Shots DX
Our policies reward customers who understand the importance of an exceptional 'stache.
Shall I explain how the system works, good sirs? 
No.
Indeed.
From now on, with every purchase, we'll give you a super bonus card!
Guaranteed to hit more often, I assure you!
Touch the Goombas that continuously appear from the left and Bowser will breathe fire to set them aflame.
If a bro's HP gets low, or if he faints, choose the Item block and use an item to recover.
Basics #4: Win Battles, Get Stronger
Three Star Cures can break the blockade guarding Peach's Castle... Wisdurm holds one inside Bowser's body?
Mario got inhaled into Bowser's body. With Luigi's help, he advances deeper inside...
A puzzle in a sack. Give it to Kuzzle.
Mushroom Balls
Rumpus Music DX
It's Fawful!
OK?
Dearest customers! Such 'staches have never before trod the earth!
Zen shop, monsieur! And enjoy zee wonder of zee bonus cards!
OK, I'll run through it again for you!
To throw lots of fireballs, tap  when Mario's fire is at its maximum size, and  when Luigi's fire is at its maximum size.
The flaming Goombas will jump into the air and come plummeting down on the enemy's head. The more Goombas that fall, the more damage you'll inflict!
Mario and Luigi recover HP with Mushrooms, Bowser recovers with Drumsticks.
Bowser's finally awakened. Looks like he's inside some sort of cave...
A puzzle in a sack. Give it to Kuzzle.
It's Fawful! DX
The Castle Depths
BROOOOOF BROOF! (Too bad.) (No bonus card for you.)
And now, we invite you to enjoy shopping.
Hammer
If they manage to throw lots of fireballs, the Bros. will be able to finish things off by throwing many giant fireballs together.
You've already tapped this amiibo today. You'll have to wait until tomorrow to tap it again.
If Mario or Luigi faints during battle, use a 1-Up Mushroom to help them recover.
Turn on Assist to mark the character who's being targeted by an enemy's attack.
Fawful's behind the crime this time! Bowser heads for his own castle.
A puzzle in a sack. Give it to Kuzzle.
Waltz in the Lake
Hey! You guys! What's the deal?! Your 'staches got all haggard!
The more fireballs you throw, the more damage you will deal to the enemy. Keep tapping those buttons!
Sorry, you can't tap any more amiibo today. You'll have to wait until tomorrow to try again.
In the Guide, under Battle Basics, you can view battle explanations and strategies, as well as some tips for winning.
POISON, BURN, DIZZY, SICK, and TRIP can all be healed by a Refreshing Herb.
If a red marker appears beneath Mario, that means he's the one being targeted.
Bowser drank water and filled his belly! Search the Pump Works inside Bowser!
A puzzle in a sack. Give it to Kuzzle.
Dr. Toadley
Press  to return to the HOME Menu.
In Battle Actions, you can see attack demos and practice mastering the necessary attack inputs.
Using items will eat into your supplies. You can acquire more items by defeating enemies or by purchasing them at shops.
If a green marker appears beneath Luigi, that means he's the one being targeted.
Alpha Kretin X
At long last, the Flame Pipe! But what awaits?
All that info is right up here!
BROOF! BROOROOROOF! (You! Horns better! Amazing!)
If you encounter a foe that you can't defeat, use the Run block to flee. Run too often, however, and your team won't get stronger!
If you turn on Assist for Bowser, you'll only be shown the button needed to avoid an enemy's incoming attack.
Use  to move.
Bowser can finally spit fire again. He heads for his castle once more!
Badges Used
BROOF? BROOOOF? (So? Get it?) 
No.
Yes.
If you're having trouble figuring out who an enemy is targeting, try turning Assist ON.
Luigi will automatically follow Mario.
Giant Battles in the Gauntlet are played in turbo mode, where everything goes faster.
Find the Banzai Bill that's fallen in Dimble Wood, and launch it with the cannon!
Oui, let us begin, honh?
OK, here's the deal!
Then allow me the sublime pleasure of explaining.
This amiibo is not compatible.
Turn Assist on or off by selecting Settings from the star menu. It's worth a try if you find a battle too difficult.
Also, Mushroom recovery items will not appear, making it even more important to avoid enemy attacks.
A 1,000-year-old curative held by Chakron above Plack Beach.
Zis is a bonus card.
You get zis when you buy things from me, oui?
Green Shell
Could not read amiibo because wireless communication was disabled. Please enable wireless communication, and then try again.
Hammer Guard
Ah, a new Bros. Attack, Snack Basket! That'll surely knock over the third sage!
Blitty
# of items
Redeem zee bonus card...
Fire Flower
An error occurred while reading the amiibo. Please try again.
An action performed by Mario and Luigi together as a pair.
You can see Mario's and Luigi's stats by checking out Status on the star menu screen.
Status Effects
Battle 1 Durmite X
All Star Cures found! Head back to Dr. Toadley's in Toad Town!
Blitty
Resting in Toad Town DX
Oh! You get zee hit!
Press  right when Bowser has taken as deep a breath as he can! Then, hold down the button until the flames die off to earn an Excellent rating.
Jump Helmet
Please power on the NFC Reader/Writer and face its infrared transceiver toward that of the Nintendo 3DS system.
If you get close to an air vent, Mario will inhale the air and become Balloon Mario.
Attack enemies with commands like JUMP and PUNCH to inflict damage. Victory is yours when their HP goes down to zero.
Attributes are separated into HP, BP, POW, DEF, SPEED, STACHE, and HORN.
Attacking with PUNCH
Battle 2 Alpha Kretin X
A Miracle Cure is born! It can break down the blockade to Peach's Castle!
Blitty
Forever in the Plains DX
BROOFOOF. BROOOOF. (Shop. bonus cards.) (Enjoy them.)
And in zis happy system, you get back some of zee coins you 'ave spent!
Yoo Who Cannon
The NFC Reader/Writer requires an update. 
Quit
Update
This is not an amiibo! Please remove it from the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer.
If you jump with  in this form, you'll jump higher than usual.
Deal additional damage when attacking by pressing the indicated button or moving the Circle Pad or stylus at the right time.
HP shows a character's health. Taking damage causes it to decrease. A character will faint if his HP reaches zero.
Defense
Dark Star X
Battle 3 Wisdurm X
A turn is a sequence of actions that your characters can take during battle. During one turn, each character can perform a single action.
Fawful is lurking in Peach's Castle! Find an entrance to the castle from the garden!
Blitty
Persistent Joy
Dark Regions DX
Champions of commerce! We are unworthy of such 'staches!
So how was zis, honh? Do you understand zee bonus cards? 
No.
Yes.
Super Bouncer
An IR communication error has occurred. Please turn your Nintendo 3DS system off and try again.
If this problem persists, please contact the Nintendo Customer Service center using the contact information in the e-manual.
This is not an amiibo! Please remove it from the bottom screen.
Data has been successfully copied.
You can exhale the excess air by pressing . Balloon Mario cannot perform any actions other than Jump.
The timing of your button presses will earn one of four possible ratings. Try to aim for the highest rating: Excellent!
BP shows your current Bros. Points and Brawl Points. These are necessary for Bros. Attacks and Brawl Attacks and will diminish as you use them.
Punch Guard
Battle 4 Bowser Memory MLX
Once each of your characters has performed an action—such as using an item or initiating an attack—the turn will come to an end.
Bowser learned the spike ball! Climb the walls and search Peach's Castle!
An item for the PR Toad in Toad Town. He'll give you what's inside!
Blue Key
Blitty
You got all the Gold Medals! You won a King Shell!
Relaxing Again
The Castle Depths DX
Ah oui! Zen I will teach once more!
Mighty Meteor
Communication with the NFC Reader/Writer has failed.
Please reset the power on the NFC Reader/Writer and try again.
If this problem persists, please contact the Nintendo Customer Service center using the contact information in the e-manual.
POW shows a character's strength. The bigger that number is, the more damage that character will deal in battle.
Shell Guard
Bowser inhales deeply, sucking up small enemies entirely or some part of larger enemies.
Battle 5 Junker X
As the battle goes on, your characters and your enemies will each get several turns.
Find the three Fawfulcopters that escaped with the keys to Peach's Castle!
Dr. Toadley's pet bird. It guides Mario and friends around.
Blitty
Blitty
Battle Time!
Waltz in the Lake DX
BROOROOOOOF... (Bonus card. Select a bonus card...)
Remove Gear
Snack Basket
This amiibo is not compatible with Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story + Bowser Jr.'s Journey.
DEF shows a character's defense. The bigger that number is, the less damage that character will receive in battle.
Using Brawl Attack
If Bowser successfully inhales enemies, they will weaken, heal Bowser, or power him up.
Battle 6 Dark Star X
However, some enemies can perform more than one action in a single turn, so watch out!
The depths of Peach's Castle can finally be accessed. Where's Princess Peach? Where's the Dark Star? 
Blitty
Blitty
Dr. Toadley DX
Oh! Monsieur Turtle Bits! Your horns, zey are looking very much finer today!
No gear
Magic Window
SPEED shows a character's quickness. The bigger that number is, the sooner a character can act in battle.
Flame Attack
When Bowser inhales small enemies, there are times when Mario & Luigi will have to fight them inside of Bowser's body.
Battle 7 Bowser X
Keep an eye on the turn count to help plan your strategy.
The Dark Star escaped into Bowser's body! Follow it into the Airway!
Blitty
Blitty
Pump it up DX
I must give zee dapper monsieur a present to reward zis style, honh?
Do you need moi to explain zee bonus cards? 
No.
Yes!
Falling Star
An action performed by Mario and Luigi together as a pair.
STACHE and HORN show a character's luck. A bigger number means more Lucky Hits and Bonus Cards.
Vacuum
The Dark Star's turned into Dark Bowser! This is terrible! Follow that thing!
Blitty
Blitty
Here We Go! DX
Oh! Monsieur Turtle Bits! Your horns, zey are even more savage than before!
Spin Pipe
If you hit a shell block, Mario will wear the shell and become Shell Mario.
Badge Energy and the Badge Meter
Dark Bowser is right there! The final battle is at hand! Ready?
Blitty
You earned  coins!
Showtime! DX
Though it pains me to bear this news to your ears, we cannot offer you a super bonus card.
Please attempt to console yourself with this inadequate normal bonus card instead.
From zis moment on, I will give you zee super bonus card when you shop, oui?
Zis will make you get zee hits easier than before!
This is a bonus card.
We will provide you one with every purchase at our shop.
You can have Luigi send Shell Mario forward by pressing . This move can be used to hit switches or blocks in the distance.
A curative held by the wise Wisdurm. It took a while to find this thing...
Blitty
You got  coins and a Treasure Ring!
Tough Guy Alert! DX
Nothing like a sweet 'stache... I give out bonus cards to anybody sporting one.
You guys want me to give you the lowdown on it? 
Nah.
Yeah!
Ah! Monsieur Turtle Bits! Zese horns, zey make me weep with adoration!
Select a box on the bonus card...
You can press  to remove the shell. You cannot perform other actions while in Shell Mario form.
You find 'im? Bring 'im to me!
You got  coins and Bone Fangs!
From zis moment on, I will give you zee ultra bonus card when you buy things!
Zis is guaranteed to give you easier hits, oui!
And if sirs get a hit...
Reading amiibo...
Select Brawl Attack, and Bowser will summon his loyal Minions.
The adventures of Mario, Luigi...and Bowser?!
Bowser Jr. takes matters into his own hands and sets out to cure the blorbs!
You got  coins and a Fury Band!
Champions of commerce, we are blinded by such 'staches.
Reading amiibo...
Use the stylus to issue orders to Bowser's Minions. When you hit the Brawl Attack block, be prepared to use the stylus right away.
The Koopalings try to get through to Bowser Jr. as he begins questing for Skeletone Formula:D.
An enormous, black, shiny weapon. If it's launched at you, you're toast!
Green Key
You got  coins and a Heroic Ring!
Bowser's Stolen Castle
Ah, zat is so, oui? Zen shop, monsieur!
And enjoy zee wonder of zee bonus cards!
Press  when the Hammer is above Luigi's head! Time it perfectly to earn an Excellent rating.
An action performed by Bowser.
Using Brawl Attacks consumes BP. You can restore BP with items like Cheese.
Bowser Jr. and the Koopalings reach Dimble Wood in search of the Giga-carrot, but a mysterious shadow lurks...
Puzzle Sack 1
The Giant
Press  right as you stomp down. Time all of your attacks well and aim for an Excellent rating.
An action that can jointly be performed by Mario and Luigi.
Set the Action Icon to Spike Ball and press  to begin.
A surprise attack by the Minions...a crisis of leadership... Will Bowser Jr. do the right thing?
Peach's Castle
Puzzle Sack 2
On To the Next Adventure!
And the Winner Is...
Set the Action Icon to Hammer and press  to turn Mario into Mini Mario.
During this move, Bowser will curl into a spike ball. You can move him around with .
If a particular area of the map contains any beans, you'll see a special icon on the top left side of the map. The icon will disappear once you collect all beans in an area.
Bowser Memory MLX
Bowser Jr. got the Giga-carrot! But team morale continues to disintegrate...
Dimble Wood
An item that might shock something. Where should you use it?
Puzzle Sack 3
Mr. Mario! Mr. Luigi! You guys are sharp!
OK then, please enjoy shopping here!
While in his Mini Mario form, Mario is able to fit through small gaps.
In this form, you can walk through thorny terrain and use the spikes to climb up certain walls.
Bowser Jr. got the Omega-onion! Now he just needs one more ingredient to make Skeletone Formula:D.
Cavi Cape
The curative found at Bowser's Castle. Bowser swallowed it, so it's all sticky.
Puzzle Sack 4
Green Cure
OK, what I'm gonna do is give you guys an ultra bonus card every time you buy something!
It'll totally get hits much more often than you're used to!
Mario brought you a gift!
When Mario is moving on his own, you cannot control Luigi.
You can also break blocks and statues if you roll through them.
Bowser Jr. got the Ever Ice! Now he must take the ingredients to Kamek's friend at Blubble Lake.
Plack Beach
This is Minion Turf!
Starlow transforms into a reticule that you can move with  to follow the big star moving on the top screen.
Luigi brought you a gift!
When Mario and Luigi are together, you can press  to return Mini Mario back to his normal size.
Press  during an enemy attack to punch.
Is Bowser Jr. finally growing up? The young Master must recapture the stolen Skeletone...and his former friends.
Bowser Path
Bowser's Minions March
Now, please enjoy your shopping experience!
Behold! A bonus card!
One of these shall be yours with every glorious purchase.
Use  if the big star is red and  if it's green to throw small stars that will stick to it. Throw the stars when the reticule flashes to make it easier to hit.
Princess Peach brought you a gift!
Doing so can stop an enemy's tackle or knock down a flying enemy.
Bowser Jr. and Iggy are reunited! But there are still six more Koopalings to rescue.
Blubble Lake
Bowser's Castle
Battles
Ah! Monsieur Turtle Bits! What 'appened?!
Have zese eyes of mine grown fuzzy and weak?
Your horns, zey look cheaper than before!
Ahem! All right then, let me explain.
The more small stars you stick to the big star, the more damage you'll deal to the enemy. So tap those buttons and keep sticking!
Toad brought you a gift!
An action performed by Bowser.
Bumpsy Plains
Tunnel
Too bad, but I can't give you a bonus card now.
Greetings, dear customers! Your 'staches look glorious!
This thing is a bonus card.
Every time you buy something, I'll give you one of these.
Bowser brought you a gift!
An action that can be performed by Mario.
Set the Action Icon to Punch and throw a sliding haymaker with   while Bowser is walking.
Trash Pit
Toad Town
It's a shame, but I can't give you a super bonus card.
But! Don't worry! I can give you a normal bonus card!
Those with exceptional 'staches are treated to bonus cards in our place of business.
Would you care for a brief explanation of how it works? 
No thanks.
Please!
Select a box on the bonus card...
Bowser Jr. brought you a gift!
Set the Action Icon to Hammer and swing with .
Use this move to break rocks that a normal punch can't and to glide over small ditches.
You can save the game by hitting a save block or certain Emoglobins.
Funny Bone
Tower of Yikk
A key that opens the blue door on the second floor of Peach's Castle.
Zis is Blitty therapy, non?
Calling All the Shots
Sadly, I cannot give a super bonus card at this time...
But do not despair! I have a normal bonus card for you!
It's a shame, but I can't give you a ultra bonus card.
But! Don't worry! I can give you a super bonus card!
Dearest customer! The sheen on your 'staches has grown!
And if you get a hit...
Goomba brought you a gift!
The Hammer can activate switches and has many other uses as well. Try using it in a variety of different spots.
If you get a game over and return to the title screen, you can resume playing from your last save.
Flame Pipe
Zere is a word for zis--cute.
Rumpus Music
Forever in the Plains
Regrettably, we are unable to provide an ultra bonus card to you at this time.
It is the hope of management that you will be satisfied with a super bonus card instead!
BROOOOOF BROOF! (No super bonus card.) (Too bad)
The way the whole deal works, what you get back is...
Some of what you spent!
Wipe off Broggy to scrub the mud away and get him clean.
Koopa Troopa brought you a gift!
Keep an eye out for places where you can save and try to save often.
Nerve Cluster
So cute! I must nibble zee ears!
Dark Regions
メッセージにふりがな
Talk about an ultra bummer! I can't give you an ultra bonus card with this!
At least I can give you a super bonus card, so it's all good!
BROOF! BROOF! BROOOOOF! (No worries.) (You get a normal bonus card)
BROOOOOF BROOF! (No ultra bonus card.) (Too bad.)
So, do you understand the bonus-card system? 
No.
Yes.
As sweets come flying out of the snack basket, move Luigi right and left with  so he can eat up.
The more mud you scrub off, the cleaner Broggy will become and the more damage he'll inflict. So try not to miss a spot!
Boo brought you a gift!
Select Punch to have Bowser hit an enemy and inflict damage.
Joint Tower
Mushroom Ball
Allô, petit Blitty!
The meter's effect when it's activated...
Mr. Mario! Mr. Luigi! What happened, huh? Your 'staches look a bit more unkempt than usual!
BROOF! BROOF! BROOOOOF! (No worries.) (You get a super bonus card.)
Well then, I'll explain one more time.
When Luigi is nice and full of sweets, he'll move above Mario. Tap  repeatedly to lift him up and toss him overhead.
If you find that Bros. Attacks are too difficult to perform, try utilizing Easy Attack Mode.
Note that he won't be able to reach flying enemies this way.
Pipe Yard
Oh! Zis one, he licks my face!
I'm afraid I can't give you a bonus card with this...
When Luigi starts to flail in mid-air, press  to perform a body press! Remember that the amount of damage and your rating depend on Luigi's size.
An action performed by Bowser.
Defeat all enemies to win a battle and earn EXP for Mario and Luigi. Earn enough and their Levels will increase.
Although this mode requires more BP, it makes it easier to successfully time Bros. Attacks.
In this battle, each boss must be defeated within a certain number of turns.
Lumbar Nook
Red Cure
Such crinchy-crunchy footsteps!
You can now use Green Shells!
It's too bad, but I can't offer a super bonus card now...
Don't worry, though, I CAN give you a normal one!
BROOFBROOF. BROOF. (Shopping present for you.) (Super bonus card.)
GRRRR BROOF! (Explain. Again.)
As the sweets are falling, if you see one flashing, press  to make Luigi jump and eat it. This will allow you to fatten him up as much as possible.
You can change your Action Icon by pressing  or .
Set the Action Icon to Punch and use  to take a swing.
As they grow in level, they will deal additional damage and their HP will increase, all of which will make defeating enemies easier.
Press  when selecting an attack to enable Easy Attack Mode.
For example, if the number of turns is set to 10, then you'll lose the battle if you don't defeat the boss within 10 turns.
Memory Banks
First, select Badges.
Battles Fled
You can now use Fire Flowers!
Too bad I can't give you an ultra bonus card with this, but those are the breaks...
At least I can give you a super bonus card, right? That's not too bad at all!
BROOOOOOOOF. (More hits easy.)
And if you guys get a hit...
Jump
Press  and  at the same time to set your Action Icon back to Jump for Mario and Luigi and back to Punch/Fire for Bowser.
There are many uses for this move, such as breaking rocks. Try using it in various places.
If you feel that enemies are getting too strong, fight foes that are easy for you to defeat, and proceed once you've increased your level.
The amount of damage the attack deals will not be affected, so give it a try for attacks you're having trouble with.
You can go to the star menu to use items that you have acquired.
Be sure to keep an eye on the turn count so you don't run out of time!
You can't equip two bands at once.
You can now use Jump Helmets!
I regret to inform you that we currently cannot present you with an ultra bonus card.
However, it is our deepest wish that you will find some solace in a super bonus card instead.
Hey, so from now on, I'll hook you up with a super bonus card with each purchase!
You'll definitely get hits more often than before!
BROOF. BROOOOOOF. (Shopping present for you.) (Ultra bonus card.)
Be sure to restore your HP and BP before battle if they're low.
You can now use Yoo Who Cannons!
BROOOOOOOOF. (Get hits more.)
Slide the Bob-ombs that are lined up toward the enemy you want to attack.
Punch
There are certain items that can only be used in battle. Examine new items as you receive them to learn more.
KO turns: 
Easy Mode
You can now use Super Bouncers!
To help keep Luigi from falling, turn the ball that Mario throws by sliding left and right on the . Use the ball to crush enemies!
The more Bob-ombs you focus on a single enemy, the bigger the explosion will be and the more damage you'll inflict.
Flame
You can perform a Hammer Guard during an enemy attack when Mario and Luigi are holding out their Hammers.
Do you want to try again?
Showtime!
You can now use Mighty Meteors!
From this day forth, you shall receive a pristine super bonus card with every glorious purchase!
You will no doubt strike hits more frequently!
Press  when the ball lands on an enemy and the ball will return to Mario. Time your  press to throw it again!
Sliding Haymaker
If you select Easy Mode, Mario, Luigi, and Bowser will become stronger, and enemies will be easier to defeat.
Keep their character buttons pressed down to make them hold their Hammers up.
You got all gold medals! You win a Miracle Badge!
Tough Guy Alert!
You can now use Spin Pipes!
Luigi will polish things off with a front ball press. Press  after he hits a foe with the ball to finish!
Body Slam
You can perform defensive actions during enemy attacks. If you manage to avoid attacks this way, you won't take damage.
You can select Easy Mode in the Settings menu, or when you game over after losing a battle. Use it if you ever feel the game is too hard.
When they are holding their Hammers above their heads, release the buttons to swing the Hammers down.
Banzai Bill
Yellow Cure
Swirling Shadows
You can now use Snack Baskets!
BROOF! BROOF! BROOF! (You! Horns! Amazing!)
OK, knock yourselves out shopping, guys!
Spike Ball
Keep KO'ing foes with your Bros. Attack until you fail.
You can now use Magic Windows!
BROOF... (Get hit...)
Use  to perform actions as Mario,  to perform actions as Luigi, and  to perform actions as Bowser.
Chest Station
Keep using your Jump Helmet Bros. Attack to move forward!
Excellent Ratings
You can now use Falling Stars!
Challenge Node
Keep attacking Broque Madame with your Brawl Attack!
Aw, I can't give you a bonus card with this, guys.
Bowser goes into his spiked shell. Slide Bowser to the left while a Shy Guy squad pushes him into a taut rope.
Bowser's Castle (East)
You can't play this mode yet.
You can't wear two pairs of boots at once.
Whoa! You guys are super smart, huh?
Cool! Well, have fun shopping, you two!
When Luigi puts on the Jump Helmet, Mario jumps aboard and does huge jumps when you press !
The more you push the rope, the more damage you'll deal to the enemy!
Wisdurm X
The adventures of Bowser Jr. and the Minions!
Bowser's Castle (West)
Bros. Attack Pieces Search Trash Pit for missing pieces.
A Blitty from a Chuboomba.
Star Panel
Select a box on the bonus card...
BROOFOOF. BROOOOF. (Shop. bonus cards.) (Enjoy them.)
Control Luigi by sliding left and right on the  and try to catch Mario after each jump!
Select Bros. Attack to have Mario and Luigi work together to perform a special attack!
Lava Lair
Bros. Attack Pieces Search Pump Works for missing pieces.
A Blitty from a Toothy.
Very good. Allow me to explain.
Press  every time Mario lands on the Jump Helmet to chain together jumps. The move ends with a finishing stomp on the enemy!
Select DEMO to view a tutorial video. This is a great way to learn the timing of moves.
Enemy Encounters
You can deal even more damage to enemies by successfully following button prompts during a Bros. Attack.
Character Movement
The sage escaped deeper into Bowser's body... Meanwhile, Bowser is hunting around Blubble Lake.
Bros. Attack Pieces Search Flab Zone for missing pieces.
A Blitty from a Treevil.
Check it: a bonus card!
I'll hook you up with one whenever you buy something!
In PRACTICE, you can try attacks for yourself. Keep at it until you've mastered them.
Basics #5: Status Attributes
Using these attacks will consume BP. You can restore BP by using items like Syrup.
Character Movement
A huge tower suddenly appeared! Or is it a robot? What's inside?
Bros. Attack Pieces Search Toad Town for missing pieces.
A Blitty from a Trashure.
Swirling Shadows DX
Beachside Dreaming
This save data is corrupted. Initialize save data? 
No
Yes
Character Targeting
Use  to move.
Character Controls
To get the Star Cure, Mario and company reentered Bowser's body. Look for a new area!
Bros. Attack Pieces Search Energy Hold for missing pieces.
A Blitty from a Flifit.
Persistent Joy DX
Meet Me at Wonder Woods
BROOOFOOF. (OK explain.)
Press  when the Hammer is above Mario's head! Time it perfectly to earn an Excellent rating.
Initializing save data. Please wait...
Assist
Luigi will automatically follow Mario, except when Mini Mario walks away.
Character Controls
Bowser's learned the body slam. He plans on heading to Dimble Wood...
Bros. Attack Pieces Search Bowser's Castle for pieces.
A Blitty from a Chain Chawful.
Equip now?
Relaxing Again DX
The Path of Secrets
Pull back your fist and press  when you're fully charged! Try your best to score an Excellent rating.
Closing game... Press  to return to the HOME Menu.
Using Bros. Attacks
Character Controls
What's this? The second Star Cure is under Bowser's Castle? Head back there!
Bros. Attack Pieces Search Plack Beach for missing pieces.
A Blitty from a Choomba.
 You got the Silver Medal!
The prize:  coins!
 You got the Bronze Medal!
The prize:  coins!
Battle Time! DX
The Grand Finale
Mario and Luigi take turns kicking a green shell using  and , respectively.
Delete this file?
Emergency Guard
Items
Bowser's Castle
Bowser can't remember the safe combination to get at the second Star Cure. Get back Bowser's memory!
Bros. Attack Pieces Search Peach's Castle for pieces.
A Blitty from a Beehoss.
You got the Gold Medal! The prize:  coins and a Big Shell!
A Bit of Peace and Quiet DX
Hey, a rank  win! You get % of spent coins refunded!
The green shell speeds up as they kick it, so pay attention to the timing of your button presses!
Deleted game data cannot be restored. Are you sure you want to delete?
There are certain behaviors that can help you predict who an enemy will attack. Try to spot any and all tells!
Easy Mode
Gear
Tower of Yikk
Where's the third Star Cure? Head back to Dr. Toadley's in Toad Town and see...
Bros. Attack Pieces Search Dimble Wood for missing pieces.
Trash Pieces
A Blitty from a Crawful.
You got the Gold Medal! The prize:  coins and Bro Socks!
A Gentle Breeze at Cavi Cape DX
Hammer
Finish up by kicking the green shell after a pass! Succeed at all necessary steps to earn an Excellent rating.
Deleting data...
Select JUMP to stomp on an enemy and inflict damage.
Hints
Save
Fawful Express
The third sage is somewhere on Plack Beach? To the beach with Mario and Luigi!
Bros. Attack Pieces A gift from Dr. Toadley's intern.
Pump Pieces
You got the Gold Medal! The prize:  coins and Dizzy Boots!
Beachside Dreaming DX
So what do you think? Pretty easy to switch badges, isn't it?
Try out different combos, stick with a favorite... It's up to you! Do whatever works!
Think of those badges as real assets in battle, and you'll find that they're your best friends!
We are then honored to provide you with a percentage of...
Your spent funds!
So? Do you guys get how the whole deal works, or what? 
Nope.
Yup.
My apologies. Allow me to explain once more.
Data deleted.
This type of attack is especially effective against flying units.
Easy Attack Mode
Map
Super Peach's Castle of Fury
Knock over the third sage? Only the Attack Pieces in Dimble Wood can help do that!
Flab Pieces
You got the Gold Medal! The prize:  coins and an EX Badge Ring!
Meet Me at Wonder Woods DX
Not that! Badges! In the lower middle!
Copy this file?
HAMMER Attacks
Bean Icon
Mario's been carried off by a monster in the woods?! Luigi alone can save him!
Toad Pieces
You got the Gold Medal! The prize:  coins and Special Gloves DX!
The Path of Secrets DX
There is already data saved to File 2. Copy game data in File 1 and overwrite File 2?
During battle, when Mario and Luigi deal damage to enemies, they will build up Badge Energy, which can be used to fill the Badge Meter.
Energy Pieces
You got the Gold Medal! The prize:  coins and Daredevil Boots!
Bowser's Stolen Castle DX
There is already data saved to File 1. Copy game data in File 2 and overwrite File 1?
The better the attack rating, the more Badge Energy you will receive. Once the Badge Meter is full, it will convert to Badge Stock.
Durmite X
Castle Pieces
A key that opens the green door on the second floor of Peach's Castle.
A Journey to Remember
Overwritten data cannot be restored. Overwrite data?
Plack Pieces
Sweet Parting
Pardon me, dear customer... but what befell you, hm? Your 'staches appear to be a bit less tidy.
Hey, what's up, guys? You polish those 'staches since last time or what?
Champions of commerce, we tremble before such 'staches.
Copying data...
An action that can jointly be performed by Mario and Luigi.
If you make contact with an enemy, a battle will start!
Peach Pieces
A true miracle cure made by combining the three curatives. It works incredibly!
Big News!
We shan't be giving out a bonus card, I'm afraid.
Set the Action Icon to Drill Bros. and perform the move by pressing  twice.
There are fixed buttons to control Mario and Luigi.
If you initiate an encounter by jumping on an enemy, they will receive damage at the start of battle.
Dimble Pieces
A key that opens the red door on the second floor of Peach's Castle.
Resting in Toad Town
While in Drill Bros. form, you can go underground and pass beneath fences and other obstacles.
Use  to perform actions as Mario,  to perform actions as Luigi, and  to perform actions as Bowser.
Clinic Pieces
Press  or  to make Mario and Luigi jump out of the ground. Do this while they are beneath an x-marked spot to dig up buried beans.
When it's your turn, select a command block to perform an action.
BROOOOOF! BROOOOF! (You! Best horns! Incredible!)
Goomba Storm
Select a block by moving  right or left. Press the character's button to confirm.
Bowser takes a big ol' breath and then breathes fire. Hold down  to deal continuous damage.
Badge Stock and Badge Effects
BROOF BROOFBROOF... (Guy with amazing horns...)
Shy Guy Squad
Defeat all enemies to win. You can start by hitting the JUMP or PUNCH block to attack.
This attack can deal damage to all enemies in battle. It also has a chance of inflicting the Burn status.
Junker X
Destroy the Dark Power! DX
BROOFBROOF. BROOFBROOF. (Shopping bonus card.) (Present for you.)
Koopa Corps
Don't forget to hold down  once Bowser starts breathing fire!
Price
A Fateful Clash! DX
Going forward, we'd like to offer you an ultra bonus card with each and every purchase.
You'll find they get hits much more frequently!
BROOF BROOBROOF? (Bonus-card explanation?) 
No.
Yes.
And should you get a hit...
Dearest customer! So knowledgeable!
Please, enjoy our fine establishment!
Bob-omb Blitz
An action that can jointly be performed by Mario and Luigi.
At zee beach or zee cape, oui...
The Grand Finale DX
Magikoopa Mob
Set the Action Icon to Spin Jump and perform the move by pressing  twice.
Birdley
Vacuum Block
At Plack Beach, it seems...
The Giant DX
GRRRRROOF BROOF! (Your horns stink!)
Broggy Bonker
While spinning, slide  in any direction to move. You can stop moving at any time by releasing .
In Dimble Wood, it seems...
Pump it up
And the Winner Is... DX
Mario brought you a gift!
You can stop spinning instantly by pressing either  or .
Bronze Boss Rank
In Bowser's Castle, it seems...
On the Bumpsy Plains, it seems...
Here We Go!
A Battle Brawl!
Mario and Luigi get inside a pipe and stomp enemies as it spins. Try to predict who's on the bottom so you can press the corresponding button.
You can tap supported amiibo to receive in-game items.
Luigi brought you a gift!
When the Bros. are on each other's shoulders, you can move them both using .
Press  during an enemy attack, and Bowser will crouch down and guard with his shell.
A Blitty from a Jailgoon.
Silver Boss Rank
In Peach's Castle, it seems...
On Bowser's Castle Path, oui...
Pushing Forward!
What's up? Wanna watch a demo? 
Later.
Sure!
If you think it's Mario, press . If your guess is Luigi, press . Watch the pipe closely as you decide which button to press.
You can tap supported amiibo to receive in-game items.
Princess Peach brought you a gift!
Doing so will protect Bowser from falling objects by repelling them with his shell spikes.
A Blitty from a Sniffle Thwomp.
Gold Boss Rank
I cannot tell where it is, non...
In the underground tunnel, oui...
Charge and Clash!
Hey, what's up, you guys? Killer 'staches!
BROOF. BROOF. BROOF. (Shop. Use coins. Get back.) (You. Happy.)
Toad brought you a gift!
An action performed by Bowser.
A Blitty from a Mechawful.
Hammers found in the Trash Pit. Use 'em to whack and break stuff!
Final Boss Rank
Hm... Zis one, he loves to play...
Around Blubble Lake, it seems...
Bowser Jr.'s Glory!
Champions of commerce! Your 'staches are disheveled!
Bowser brought you a gift!
An action that can jointly be performed by Mario and Luigi.
Set the Action Icon to Body Slam. Press  to jump, and then press it again to perform a Body Slam.
- - - - - - - - -
A Blitty from a Naplock.
Miracle Cure
Master Rank
So cute! Oh, it pains moi!
You can't wear two pairs of gloves at once.
Bowser Jr.'s Glory! (Music Box Version)
Bowser Jr. brought you a gift!
The Bros. can both jump at the same time by pressing .
There are floors and switches that only a Body Slam can break or press. Try using it on suspicious places.
Touch the Open icon on the bottom right of the touch screen to display the mini map and view your current location.
Class 1
Ludwig reveals himself! But there are still five more Koopalings to rescue...
A Blitty from a Dark Trashure.
Zat is cute. Period.
Do you grasp the fundamentals of the system, dear sirs? 
No.
Certainly.
Goomba brought you a gift!
You can use  to view surrounding areas of the map.
Class 2
Larry and Lemmy are back! Time to head to Bowser's Castle and look for the last three Koopalings.
A Blitty from a Dark Mechawful.
Stingler
Zese eyes, zey see zee soul.
Koopa Troopa brought you a gift!
You can also use the C Stick to see surrounding areas of the map. *Only available on New Nintendo 3DS systems.
Class 3
Wendy gets out of a tight spot, but can the Koopalings still save Roy and Morton?
Is zis fellow scared?
Redeem a bonus card?
Mario and Luigi take turns jumping out of a magic window to stomp foes. Press the corresponding button for whoever jumps out.
Boo brought you a gift!
Bowser always has access to two kinds of defense while enemies are attacking.
Class 4
Roy has been rescued! It's time to enter the castle and find the last Koopaling remaining...
Oh! Petit Blitty! Cheríe!
You get some of your coins right back! Just like that!
Punch
If Mario jumps out. press . If it's Luigi, press . If they jump out together, press  and  at the same time.
Action Icons
Select HAMMER to strike an enemy and inflict damage.
Bowser punches with , and uses his shell with . Punch mainly guards against frontal attacks. Shell defends against overhead attacks.
Class 5
Items
The Koopalings are reunited! Now, to take on the final battle...
So very square, honh? Parfait!
A Bit of Peace and Quiet
Whoa, you guys! WHOA! Your insane 'staches just completely blew my mind!
Action Icons
An action performed by Bowser.
Use the Hammer to attack spiky foes and other enemies that can't be jumped on.
Class 6
Battle Turns
Bowser's Castle is back in Bowser's hands. And Bowser Jr. grew up! Or did he...
A Gentle Breeze at Cavi Cape
Henceforth, every purchase will bring to your wondrous palms an ultra bonus card!
It is virtually guaranteed to get hits at a pace most hectic!
Well then, you enjoy shopping!
BROOOOF BROOOOF. (This bonus card.) (Shopping present.)
Flame
Jump
Jump
An action that can be performed by Mario and Luigi.
Set the Action Icon to Fire and breathe flames with .
Class 7
Win Conditions
Choose the green-side badge with .
Enemies Defeated
Set the Action Icon to Jump and press  to make Mario jump and  to make Luigi jump.
Hammer
There are many uses for this, such as clearing trees and grass. Try using it in various places.
When you get new gear, try it on! After all, you won't receive any benefits from unequipped gear.
Giant Battles
Choose the red-side badge with !
Assistance
Use Jump to reach high places or to hit blocks.
Simultaneous Jump
You can go to the star menu screen to equip gear.
Red Key
Mr. Mario! Mr. Luigi! Such shining 'staches!
Trace the Magikoopas' magic sparks as they form and Bowser will breathe fire to charge them up.
Certain types of blocks may open up new paths. If you see a suspicious block, try hitting it!
Mini Mario
When the Badge Meter is full, it converts to Badge Stock, which appears on the right side of the bottom screen during your turn.
Toad Square
Hammers
In my shop, I give out bonus cards to customers with great 'staches, you know.
You want me to explain the bonus-card policy? 
Nah.
Sure!
Slide  left and right to position Mario and Luigi at the falling meteor's point of impact.
The more charged up the sparks are, the more damage the Magikoopas' magic will inflict.
Spin Jump
There are times when certain enemy attacks will cause status changes in battle.
Tap Badge Stock during your turn to use its Badge Effect.
Pump Works
An item created in the Energy Hold. It takes on various shapes.
You can't wear two pairs of socks at once.
You can't equip two rings at once.
Mr. Mario! Mr. Luigi! Those 'staches are finer than ever!
Our management refunds some of the coins you spent!
To swing their hammer and knock the meteor into enemies, press  for Mario and  for Luigi.
Back
Shell Mario
Hint messages will appear while Easy Mode is activated, or if you are defeated and choose to retry a battle.
When a status change takes effect, you may have your actions limited, or your HP may decrease.
Badge Effects can only be used during your turn. You can choose a command even after using one, so try using Badge Effects before using a command.
Flab Zone
Mushroom Rank
From now on, each time you buy something here, you'll get a super bonus card!
You'll get more hits than before, I guarantee it!
Does our bonus-card policy make sense to you? 
No.
Yes.
If you keep succeeding until the very end and get an Excellent rating, the meteor will crack and an item will appear! It's exciting to see what it will be.
Drill Bros.
Mario and Luigi can also perform actions during enemy attacks. Either bro can do a jump guard by crouching down.
Choose the Hint command block to view hints.
These effects will heal over time. You can recover from status effects faster by using a Refreshing Herb.
In this battle, Mario and Luigi can't use any of their normal items. Instead, they'll battle using items chosen for them by the Gauntlet.
Energy Hold
Shell Rank
Once you've decided on a nice badge combo, confirm with !
Aw, super lame! No super bonus card for you this time.
But hey, a normal bonus card, that I CAN do!
Mr. Mario! Mr. Luigi! I've never seen your 'staches' equals!
Saving... Please do not turn off the power.
You can change your Action Icon by pressing  or .
Balloon Mario
Press either character button to jump.
Hint messages contain valuable information, as well as tricks for defeating enemies. When you see a hint, try putting it to the test!
The items available will vary from class to class.
Airway
Flower Rank
From now on, when you buy from me, I'll give you an ultra bonus card!
Those things get hits even easier than the others!
A miss... Too bad.
Press  and  at the same time to set your Action Icon back to Jump for Mario and Luigi and back to Punch for Bowser.
You can avoid enemy attacks by jumping at the right moment. Time your jumps to land on enemies and deal damage as well.
Use  to perform actions as Mario,  to perform actions as Luigi, and  to perform actions as Bowser.
You got a trophy! And a prize of  coins and the !
Your HP and BP will be full when the battle begins, but your badge meter will begin at zero.
Bowser learns the sliding haymaker. He sets out for his castle once again!
Arm Center
Boomerang Rank
Turning a New Page
Press  just as you stomp down. Time all of your attacks well and aim for an Excellent rating.
Basics #1: Command and Attack
You cannot control Bowser unless Mario and Luigi are inside his body.
At long last, Bowser's Castle, but...what's this about Fawful Theater?!
Gut Check
Star Rank
Doing It Right
Slide Bowser up and down to knock the attacking Koopa Troopas back into the enemy ranks.
