Previously fought bosses.
Previously fought giant bosses.
Turn limit: 
Grobot X
Bowser X & Antasma X
Torkscrew X
Big Massif X
Mammoshka X
Elite Trio X
Pi'illodium X
Antasma X
Battle Medley
Robo-Drilldigger X
Mount Pajamaja X
Earthwake X
Zeekeeper X
Bowser X
Giant Battle Medley
----
You need to defeat all monsters in the Battle Ring to challenge this class.
You need to battle with stronger monsters to challenge this class.
We recommend level 
 or higher for this class.
If you think you've got what it takes, challenge this class. 
You've already cleared this class. No coins necessary. 
Start Battle
Change Badges
About Items
Clear Conditions
Battle Grobot X.
Battle Bowser X & Antasma X.
Battle Torkscrew X.
Battle Big Massif X.
Battle Mammoshka X.
Battle Elite Trio X.
Battle Pi'illodium X.
Battle Antasma X.
Take on Battle Medley.
Battle Robo-Drilldigger X.
Battle Mount Pajamaja X.
Battle Earthwake X.
Battle Zeekeeper X.
Battle Bowser X.
Take on Giant Battle Medley.
Equip badges before the battle begins.
Read about items you can use, the Badge Meter, and other things.
Learn the conditions for clearing the battle.
Coin reward: 
!
Turn-limit update!
Saving battle results...
Save complete.
Remember, ONLY battle results have been saved.
Don't forget to save game data in the regular way.
For this battle, you can only use items provided for you before starting. Your badges and stock will be reset. Mario and Luigi will begin with full HP/BP.
After Mario, Luigi, and the enemies each perform an action, that equals one turn. If you don't win battles within the turn limit set for each class, the battles will end.
After Mario, Luigi, and the enemies each perform an action, that equals one turn. Win within the set number of turns! (Rhythm Mushroom cannot be used.)
After Mario, Luigi, and the enemies each perform an action, that equals one turn. You must beat the foe within the set number of turns to clear the battle!
MARIO! Vital news!
As you know, this place lets you fight enemies from past battles...
But if you win Battle Class 1, you'll get the Zeekeeper's Feathers as a prize!
Go forth, beat the foe in Battle Class 1, and win the Zeekeeper's Feathers!
If you win Battle Class 1 again, you'll get the Zeekeeper's Feathers as a prize!
Go forth, beat the foe in Battle Class 1, and win the Zeekeeper's Feathers!
If you win Battle Class 1, you'll get the Zeekeeper's Feathers as a prize!
Go forth, beat the foe in Battle Class 1, and win the Zeekeeper's Feathers!
AMAZING!
You got the special prize, the Zeekeeper's Feathers!
Let's head back to the real world and report to Starlow!
