Explore Pi'illo Castle. When you're done looking around, talk to Broque Monsieur.
Peach was taken into the depths of Pi'illo Castle. Go after her!
Find your way out from the depths of Pi'illo Castle!
Look around the collection room in the basement of Pi'illo Castle.
Peach was taken into Luigi's dream! Go find her!
Peach has been kidnapped and taken into the dream world! Look for clues about her kidnapper.
Peach has been kidnapped and taken into the dream world! Talk to the elder of the Pi'illos for clues about her kidnapper.
Peach has been kidnapped and taken into the dream world! Revive the elder of the Pi'illos for clues about her kidnapper.
Peach has been taken into the depths of the dream world. Find Dream's Deep!
Antasma and Bowser are searching for the Dream Stone in Dozing Sands. Stop them!
The Dream Stone is somewhere in Dozing Sands. Find it!
The Dream Stone was already taken! Go to the dream world, and find the spot where the Dream Stone used to be. There may be some clues there.
It seems that the Dream Stone is somewhere on Mount Pajamaja. Go to Mount Pajamaja in the real world!
It seems that the Dream Stone is somewhere on Mount Pajamaja. Go there and investigate!
It seems the Dream Stone is somewhere on Mount Pajamaja, but...
The Dream Stone should be somewhere on Mount Pajamaja. Look for it while climbing up the mountain!
Antasma and Bowser have the Dream Stone! You managed to escape from the Dreambeats by going into the dream world, but...
You should hide Peach somewhere to protect her from Bowser! Meet her at Pi'illo Castle.
Peach has evacuated to Driftwood Shore! Meet her there.
Find the Dreampoint in Driftwood Shore. Then hide Peach in the dream world!
Expand the depths of the dream world in Driftwood Shore, and hide Peach there!
You should get back to the real world.
Dr. Snoozemore has returned to Pi'illo Castle. Ask him about the best way to take on Antasma and Bowser!
You'll need to revive the Zeekeeper in order to break through the barrier at Neo Bowser Castle. The dream world in Pi'illo Castle may provide some clues.
You'll need to revive the Zeekeeper in order to break through the barrier at Neo Bowser Castle. Collect the five Ultibed parts to wake the Zeekeeper!
You'll need to revive the Zeekeeper in order to break through the barrier at Neo Bowser Castle. Find Bedsmith. He's the only one who can make the Ultibed!
You'll need to revive the Zeekeeper in order to break through the barrier at Neo Bowser Castle. Collect the five Ultibed parts to wake the Zeekeeper!
Revive the Zeekeeper in order to break through the barrier around Neo Bowser Castle...
The Zeekeeper has been revived! Go destroy the barrier around Neo Bowser Castle.
Enter Neo Bowser Castle, and find Antasma and Bowser!
Defeat Antasma and Bowser inside Neo Bowser Castle!
The final battle awaits! Face Bowser in combat!
You arrived on Pi'illo Island! Head to Pi'illo Castle!
You've joined forces with Dreamy Luigi. Now go find Princess Peach!
Peach has been taken underground! Maybe you should follow that light that suddenly appeared. 
Follow Dreambert, the prince of the Pi'illo Kingdom.
Meet up with the elder of the Pi'illo Tribe. He's in Mushrise Park. He may know something about Peach's whereabouts...
Brickle, the maintenance guy at Mushrise Park, ran off with the elder's pillow. After him!
A bunch of monsters are blocking your path. Find 10 Attack Pieces to learn a new move, and bash your way through!
Brickle, the maintenance guy at Mushrise Park, ran off with the elder's pillow. After him!
Brickle got stuck in the fountain. Find a way to get him out of there!
Use the elder's pillow on the bed in the maintenance lodge.
Catch the Dreambunny, and revive the elder!
Catch that Dreambunny! You'll need to find a way to make the bouncy flowers grow big in order to follow him.
Activate the water pump, and water the bouncy flowers to make them grow. You'll need to turn the feathers to activate the water pump.
Connect the pipe to the water pump, and deliver the water to the fountain!
Use the fully grown bouncy flower to follow the Dreambunny!
Venture down the hole that Eldream dug, and explore the depths of the dream world.
Some Brock staff in the desert are having monster trouble! Help them out!
Use Mole Mario and Mini-Mario to hit the two blocks.
Use Mole Mario to dig into a beanhole and leap back to the surface.
Why not take a stroll around this area?
Rescue the Pi'illo who's trapped in a nightmare chunk in the dream world!
Climb the sand flow to proceed through Dozing Sands.
Find a way to climb the sand flow, and search for the Dream Stone. 
Rescue the four Deco Pi'illos who are guarding the Dozites! It may help you climb the sand flow.
Go after the monster that swallowed a Deco Pi'illo!
Climb the sand flow, and search for the Dream Stone!
Get closer to the place where the Dream Stone is rumored to be!
Chase the Dream Stone's spirit in order to ask where the Dream Stone could be!
Go to the tour center in Wakeport to register for the Mount Pajamaja climbing tour.
You're registered for the Mount Pajamaja climbing tour! Head to the meeting place!
Big Massif, one of the tour guides, is missing... He must be somewhere in Wakeport. Go find him!
Big Massif is sleeping deeply and won't wake up. You need to wake him up from inside the dream world!
Defeat all four Hooraws in order to meet Big Massif in the dream world!
You defeated all four Hooraws! Go back to the tour center in the dream world to meet Big Massif.
Return to Wakeport in the real world, and meet Big Massif.
The Mount Pajamaja climbing tour has started! Follow the Massifs to get to the mountain!
Follow the Massif Bros. and ascend Mount Pajamaja.
The Mighty Gate is closed, so you can't climb any farther. Revive the Mega Pi'illos to see if they can help you.
Keep up with the Massif Bros. as you climb the mountain, and find some clues about the Dream Stone.
Aim for the top of Mount Pajamaja!
The dream portal disappeared! Look for some clues to find a way to reopen the portal!
The dream portal may open again if the mountain erupts. Find a way to cause Dreamy Mount Pajamaja to erupt!
Head back to Mount Pajamaja in the real world.
Take a stroll around this area.
Meet the Seadrings, and get all three Dream Eggs from them!
Return to Peach in the dream world, and give the Dream Eggs to Seadric.
Expand the dream world in order to get to the depths of Dreamy Driftwood Shore.
Expand the dream world in order to get to a deeper area of Dreamy Driftwood Shore.
Get to the deepest part of Dreamy Driftwood Shore, and hide Peach there!
Dreambert opened a door deeper into the dream world. Go through the door.
You found a Zeekeeper statue in the depths of the dream world! Solve the mystery of the statue.
You got the Ultibed manual! Return to the real world.
Go to Mount Pajamaja, and start collecting the parts needed to craft the Ultibed.
Explore other areas to find the remaining Ultibed parts! Check the Ultibed manual if you don't know where to go next.
Bedsmith should be somewhere in Wakeport, but...
You found a nightmare chunk. Get closer and break it open...
Go to Somnom Woods, and find Bedsmith.
Look for Bedsmith's workshop in Somnom Woods.
Go to the Pi'illo Temple in Somnom Woods.
Save the Pi'illo Masters, and go to the Pi'illo Temple.
Sleep on the Ultibed, and encounter the Zeekeeper in the dream world!
Get to the top of the giant tree, and meet with the Zeekeeper!
Return to the entrance of Somnom Woods.
Kamek has escaped to the dream world! After him!
Catch and defeat Kamek!
Kamek has escaped again! After him again!
Kamek has escaped to the dream world again. Find him!
Catch Kamek again, and defeat him for real this time! 
Kamek has escaped yet again! Chase him!
Kamek has escaped to the dream world yet again! Don't let him get away!
Catch Kamek, and ACTUALLY defeat him instead of letting him escape again!
Go to the depths of Neo Bowser Castle!
Put out the fire from the dream world!
Go inside Bowser's dream world, and destroy the source of his power.
Defeat Bowser in the dream world to decrease his power in the real world!
You defeated Bowser in the dream world! Return to the real world!
The end is near! Confront Antasma and Bowser!
This has gotta be the end, right?! I mean, seriously! Go to the top floor, defeat Bowser, rescue Peach, and regain control of the Dream Stone!
Use or view items you've obtained.
Have a look at your gear, or change the gear you're currently using.
Check the status of Mario or Luigi.
Check out a variety of things, like the summary of recent story events. You can also practice some of your attacks here.
Change your badges.
Take a look at what you've collected so far.
Unequip Apparel
This will remove your apparel.
No Apparel
You have no apparel equipped.
Shroom Rank
Shell Rank
Flower Rank
Star Rank
Rainbow Rank
HP is your health. If you take damage and this number hits zero, you'll faint.
BP stands for Bros. Points. You need these to perform tandem attacks.
POW is attack power. The higher this number is, the more damage you'll deal.
This number shows your attack power when you jump on the enemy.
This number shows the attack power when you attack a foe with a hammer.
DEF is defensive power. The higher this number is, the less damage you'll take.
This is agility. The higher this number is, the faster your battle turns will come.
The higher this number is, the easier it is to land Lucky Hits during a battle.
Your currently equipped boots.
Your currently equipped hammer.
Your equipped apparel, including wear, gloves, and accessories.
A slot for equipped apparel, including wear, gloves, and accessories.
A slot for equipped apparel, including wear, gloves, and accessories.
Your currently equipped badge.
Your current rank.
Your current level. When you level up far enough, your rank will go up.
Your experience-points total. When this increases enough, your level goes up.
The amount of experience points required for your next level-up.
Touch an item on the Touch Screen to make an explanation appear here.
Your status with all gear unequipped.
Your status with all current gear equipped.
- Notification - Don't forget to take a break every now and then!
● Information ●
The Zee Parts must be found! First, go to Mount Pajamaja to find the Pajamaja Rock Frame!
Collect all of the Zee Parts! You can view the details about each by selecting the tab below.
All parts have been found! Now find the craftsman who can make the Ultibed. He should be in Wakeport.
Bedsmith has agreed to build the Ultibed. The meeting place is Somnom Woods! Hurry up!
Bedsmith finished making the Ultibed. Now, find the Zeekeeper, and break through the blockade in front of Neo Bowser Castle!
● Pajamaja Rock Frame ●
The Pajamaja Rock Frame is somewhere on Mount Pajamaja. Can you find it? Go there and search for clues!
According to the Massif Bros., the tour's ultimate goal is to find the treasure of Mount Pajamaja. Could it be one of the Zee Parts?
The treasure was indeed the Pajamaja Rock Frame, but it can't be utilized right now. It's covered with nightmare chunks...
The nightmare chunks have been broken, so the frame can finally be used! The four solid legs make it super steady.
● Dozing Mattress ●
The Zeekeeper statue claims the Dozing Mattress lies hidden in Dozing Sands. Where in that vast region could it be?
Britta tried to drill in a new spot but was thwarted by a high wall. Rumor has it there's a treasure hidden beyond that point...
There's a spot where the raw materials of the Dozing Mattress, the Dozing Drops, fall under the desert. Suspicious...
The Dozing Drops in the Dreampoint became solid and turned into the Dozing Mattress! Now THAT is comfort!
● Zeekeeper's Feathers ●
The Battle Ring, which is somewhere in Pi'illo Castle, boasts some really rare items!
It seems like you can claim the Zeekeeper's Feathers by besting Grobot X in the Battle Ring.
You got the feathers after beating the powerful Grobot X! Who wouldn't want to get tickled by these feathers?
● Driftwood Jellyfish Sheets ●
The Driftwood Jellyfish Sheets, as the name implies, are said to be on Driftwood Shore. Who might know about them?
Find a secret cave somewhere at the beach, and search within! Be sure to look around the places you've already visited as well.
Some fiends stole the item you found! The old man at the Mole Hunt seems to know where the suspects are off to...
The old man at the Mole Hunt says the thieves who took your item are heading toward Pi'illo Blimport.
You beat the thieves and got the sheets! Driftwood jellyfish are incredibly rare—they only appear once every thousand years!
● Mushrise Tree Board ●
Mushrise Park has been mostly abandoned, but perhaps someone knows something about the Mushrise Tree Board?
Brickle seems to have the Mushrise Tree Board. He'll give it to you, but only if you agree to do some rock clearing in return!
You cleared the rocks and got the board! This is a valuable piece of a legendary giant tree that has decayed over the years.
Pi'illo Blimport
Pi'illo Castle
Mushrise Park
Dozing Sands
Wakeport
Mount Pajamaja
Driftwood Shore
Somnom Woods
Neo Bowser Castle
????
Hammer
Right Wing
Left Wing
Dream Egg
Ultibed Manual
Pajamaja Rock Frame
Dozing Mattress
Mushrise Tree Board
Driftwood Jellyfish Sheets
Zeekeeper's Feathers
The Ultibed
Pi'illo Blimport Shot
Pi'illo Castle Shot
Mushrise Park Shot
Dozing Sands Shot
Wakeport Shot
Mount Pajamaja Shot
Driftwood Shore Shot
Somnom Woods Shot
Neo Bowser Castle Shot
Plush Zeekeeper
Rare Fruit
Yoshi Egg
Peach's Photo
Book of Ruins
Lost Camera
Pi'illo Ring
Old Lithograph
Hooraw Medal
Queen Bean's Photo
A tool used for hitting switches, cracking rocks, and more.
A wing of the Mushrise Park wind generator. A wind gust blew it off.
A wing of the Mushrise Park wind generator. A wind gust blew it off.
An egg filled with dream-world essence. It can expand Dreamy Driftwood Shore.
A guidebook that contains information about the Ultibed.
A solid rock chunk that will be the frame for the Ultibed.
A super-comfortable mattress made of solidified Dozing Drops.
A valuable board presented as a gift for your help breaking some rocks.
Mysterious sheets that feel kind of slick and wet to the touch. Gross.
Fluffy, near-weightless feathers used as stuffing for the Dozing Mattress.
The ultimate bed, created by Bedsmith. Capable of providing profound sleep.
A photo found in Pi'illo Blimport.
A photo found in Pi'illo Castle.
A photo found in Mushrise Park.
A photo found in Dozing Sands.
A photo found in Wakeport.
A photo found on Mount Pajamaja.
A photo found in Driftwood Shore.
A photo found in Somnom Woods.
A photo found in Neo Bowser Castle.
A plush toy of the island's mascot, the great Zeekeeper.
A very rare fruit that's never been seen before in the Mushroom Kingdom.
The world-famous Yoshi egg. The big-polka-dot pattern is SO CUTE.
A portrait of a smiling Princess Peach.
A rare book only given to staff assigned to investigating the ruins.
A lost camera found by one of the Beanish people. Whose camera is it?
A ring from the ancient Pi'illo Kingdom era. Very old, but still bright and shiny.
An old lithograph with Pi'illo writing that Broque Madame found on the beach.
Proof that you were victorious in a heated battle against the Hooraws.
A portrait of Queen Bean from the Beanbean Kingdom.
Mushrise Park Pieces
Brickle's Pieces
Dozing Sands Pieces
Wakeport Pieces
Mount Pajamaja Pieces
Driftwood Shore Pieces
Massif Bros. Pieces
Somnom Woods Pieces
Neo Bowser Castle Pieces
Eldream's Pieces
Dreamy Mushrise Pieces
Dreamy Dozing Pieces
Dreamy Pajamaja Pieces
Dreamy Driftwood Pieces
Dreamy Wakeport Pieces
Dreamy Somnom Pieces
Find all 10 pieces for a Bros. Attack! Search every inch of Mushrise Park!
Brickle hooked you up with these Attack Pieces.
Find all 10 pieces for a Bros. Attack! Search every inch of Dozing Sands!
Find all 10 pieces for a Bros. Attack! Search every inch of Wakeport!
Find all 10 pieces for a Bros. Attack! Search every inch of Mount Pajamaja!
Find all 10 pieces for a Bros. Attack! Search every inch of Driftwood Shore!
The Massif Bros. tossed you these Attack Pieces.
Find all 10 pieces for a Bros. Attack! Search every inch of Somnom Woods!
Find all 10 pieces for a Bros. Attack! Search every bit of Neo Bowser Castle!
Eldream made you a gift of these Attack Pieces.
Find 10 pieces for a Luiginary Attack! Scour Dreamy Mushrise Park!
Find 10 pieces for a Luiginary Attack! Scour Dreamy Dozing Sands!
Find 10 pieces for a Luiginary Attack! Scour Dreamy Mount Pajamaja!
Find 10 pieces for a Luiginary Attack! Scour Dreamy Driftwood Shore!
Find 10 pieces for a Luiginary Attack! Scour Dreamy Wakeport!
Find 10 pieces for a Luiginary Attack! Scour Dreamy Somnom Woods!
No Attack Pieces found.
Pi'illo Castle area
Mushrise Park area
Dozing Sands area
Wakeport area
Mount Pajamaja area
Driftwood Shore area
Somnom Woods area
Neo Bowser Castle area
Pi'illo Blimport area
Battle Basics
Counterattacks
Fighting Together
Badge How-To
Dream-World Battles
Hammer How-To
Bros. Attacks
Luiginary Attacks
An overview of attacking and avoiding the attacks of your enemies.
An in-depth look at counterattacks and first strikes.
A study of the intricacies of fighting with both Mario and Luigi.
A complete tutorial on the use and enjoyment of badges.
A thorough going-over of battling in the dream world.
A refresher on attacking and counterattacking with hammers.
A quick reminder about how to perform Bros. Attacks.
Everything you always wanted to know about Luiginary Attacks.
Check story progress and your current goal.
Revisit battle tutorials to brush up your skills.
Practice your Bros. and Luiginary Attacks.
Learn about the ultimate bed...the Ultibed.
See all the Pi'illo folk that you've saved so far.
Read up on the Expert Challenges.
Count your beans, and see where you found them.
Look at all the important things you've collected.
This is the menu screen.
Come here to use the items that you guys have picked up...
Or change gear...
Or do a little research on yourselves.
So the top screen shows your present location and how many coins you have...
Oh! And also how much time you've spent playing.
There's just a ton of useful info buried in the menu screen.
You definitely ought to pop in now and then to check it out.
Anyway, let's try using a Mushroom!
When you want to use something you're carrying, choose Items.
Use the +Control Pad to go to Items, and then press the A Button.
You can also just tap the Items icon. Nice, huh?
Give it a try!
OK, so these are the items currently in your inventory.
What we want to do is select Mushrooms from the list.
Use the +Control Pad to highlight Mushrooms, then press the A Button.
You can also just tap Mushrooms, of course.
Once you've selected the item you want to use, you need to choose who will use it.
For this time, select Luigi.
Use the +Control Pad to pick Luigi, then press the A Button.
You can also just tap the Luigi panel if you like.
All right! He's healed!
OK, let's head back to the last screen.
You can either press the B Button or tap the back icon in the lower left.
When you want to go to the previous screen, just press the B Button.
You can also tap the back icon in the lower left of the screen.
All right, now hit the B Button to return to the first menu screen.
You can either press the B Button or tap the back icon in the lower left.
That's it for my explanation! Press the B Button one more time to close the menu.
You can either press the B Button or tap the back icon in the lower left to close the menu.
Ooh, look! There's a new badge icon here!
Try choosing Badges so we can take a look!
Use the +Control Pad to go to Badges, then press the A Button.
Of course, you can also just tap the Badges icon.
This is where you can check out all the badges you guys have collected!
You can each wield one badge at any given time.
Next time you get a new badge, be sure to look at it in the Badges menu!
OK, close the menu.
By the way, the B Button isn't the only way to close menus.
If you press START, you can close any open menu with a single touch.
All right, this'll be quick!
When you want to view your Attack Pieces, select Guide.
Go on and select Guide.
In here, you can review any battle tutorials you've seen so far.
Not only that, but you can read a summary of your adventure so far.
Now, to see the Attack Pieces you've found, select Attacks.
Go ahead! Select Attacks.
Those are your current Attack Pieces.
When you get a new Attack Piece, you may want to check it out in the Attacks section of the Guide, OK?
All right, close the menu.
Let me explain how to view the Bros. Attack you just learned.
You can check Attacks basically like you did Attack Pieces.
First, go ahead and select Guide.
C'mon, select Guide.
OK, now select Attacks.
You can do it! Select Attacks.
There it is! The Bros. Attack you just completed!
Select a Bros. Attack here, and then press the Y Button to see a demonstration of the attack.
When you're viewing a demo, you can press START to jump in and do a practice trial.
I highly recommend practicing before you try to use a Bros. Attack in battle!
When you've seen the demo and had your fill of practice, go on and close the menu.
First, select Badges.
Go on, select Badges!
Changing badges is a snap.
Use the R Button for the fella in red's badges...
And, of course, the L Button for the fella in green!
You can also tap and hold to grab the badges and rotate the wheel to the one you want.
If you like tapping on stuff, I've gotta say, this method is gonna be the one for you!
Changing badge combos will have all kinds of effects.
The effects I'm talking about are explained above the badge wheels, so study up!
Oh, and, fellas? Here's the most important thing!
Once you've decided what badges to use, be sure to press the A Button!
L and R Buttons to switch badges, then the A Button! All you need to know!
When you're done looking around, close the menu, OK?
To lay eyes on the book you just received, select Guide.
Go on. Select Guide.
Observe! A book icon has been added here.
Yes, the Ultibed manual. Please select it.
Focus. For now, just select the Ultibed manual.
This will keep a log of current events and details regarding the different bed parts.
Once you've become one with the information here, I ask that you close the menu!
OK, please select Badges!
Ahem! Just pick Badges for now!
To switch badges around, use the L and R Buttons then hit the A Button!
Pretty basic method, right? Don't forget!
Any badge you find or buy will offer distinct effects...
So study up over here as you select which effect you want!
You should choose badges over here by seeing how powerful their effects will be!
Of course, the ultimate effects depend on the combination of badges you end up using.
So anytime you get a new badge, check the Badges menu and see what combos you can create!
Each of you can hold up to six badges, which means there are a total of 36 potential combos!
If you want, you can load up one of you with as many badges as possible...
Or, if you feel like it, split the badges you get between the two of you!
The more badges you pick up, the more combos you can make and the more fun you can have!
Even with just the badges you have now, there are several combos you can make. Try a few out!
Well, that's all the info I have for you. Thanks for listening!
