Ah! I am m-me! This is first time.
Me Fire! More Fire!
Revive bright red me with Fire!
Thunder scary! Thunder hurts!
Remember!
If Thunder hurt me, I take more damage from Thunder!
It shocks me!
Thunder me! Thunder me now!
Revive deep blue me with Thunder!
Fire hot! Fire burns!!!
Think!!!
If Fire hurt me, I take more damage from Fire!
I hurt already!
Hmm hm hmm...♪
I no believe!
Automatically block two regular attacks. Special Skills cannot be blocked this way.
Note that using this move is dizzying and causes a drop in DEF.
They look innocent, but their shells provide a tough defense. Dry Bones may share their bone structure, but beware—they know their weakness!
ACCURACY 20%↑ for all allies
Piercing Projectile
The Trouble with Toads
Recruited new allies!
Increases the POW of a trooper and their surrounding allies.
Press the  Button right as the unit blocks an attack to counterattack.
When you attack enemies that have spikes, you will receive a small amount of damage.
It seems that lots of different enemy types take part in this battle...
Try raising your squad level or changing your formation, all while being mindful of the game's difficulty balance.
Their constant movement masks their lack of power. Just who are those mischievous eyes targeting?!
POW 10%↑ for all allies
Rock Solid
Find the Invincibility Mushroom!
Saving... Please do not turn off the power.
A bean that gives 10 EXP to Ranged troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Press the  Button when the meter is at its highest point.
The strength of each of your Minions is shown as their status if you select them from the Formation menu.
There are two types of spiky enemies: those that only have spikes on top, and those that are covered in them.
Flying
They charge forward wielding a spear. Weak against red Koopa Paratroopas.
POW 10%↑ and DEF 5%↑ for all allies
Gold Beanie Spotted!
There are five status attributes: HP, POW, DEF, SPEED, and SPIRIT.
Enemies that only have spikes on top will not inflict damage if you attack from the side.
You can strengthen your units by feeding them beans.
A rare type of Boo with a tail. Getting hit with said tail really smarts!
HP 10%↑ and POW 5%↑ for all allies
Silly Ol' Goomp
HP Beans
HP shows a character's health. It decreases when damage is taken. A character will leave the battle if its HP reaches zero.
Enemies that are covered with spikes will deal damage no matter what direction you attack them from.
If you recruit too many units, you can go into the Formation menu and press the  Button to dismiss some.
Lots of enemy Melee troopers will appear in this quest.
Flying troopers are strong against Melee troopers. Deploy lots of them from the Formation menu!
I'm only used to fighting Mario! For now...I'll just keep bashing!
DEF 10%↑ and HP 5%↑ for all allies
The Lonely Koopa Troopa
POW shows a character's attack power. The higher the number, the more damage a character will deal in battle.
Sometimes a unit you have dismissed will leave you an item as a parting gift.
Enemy SPEED Up!
Lots of enemy Ranged troopers will appear in this quest. Deploying Melee troopers is recommended, but note that Pokeys are weak against Boomerang Bros.
It's also worth noting that Spear Guys are strong against Elite Pestnuts. If you use them for support, they'll be useful even when Flying troopers appear.
Although there are many Ranged troopers here, Flying troopers take part as well.
Try deploying a squad that consists mainly of Melee troopers, with some Ranged troopers as backup support.
Lots of enemy Melee and Ranged troopers will appear in this quest.
Melee troopers have no bad matchups here, so you may want to rely heavily on them. Note that Pokeys are weak to Boomerang Bros.
You can view it whenever you wish by tapping the Guide icon on the bottom screen!
Hm. We're both low on HP at the moment...
I need something to secure the win...
Melee Mischief
POW 10%↑ and HP 5%↑ for all allies
Deny
Captain Koopa Troopa Trial
A bean that gives 3,000 EXP to Ranged troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
The impact of a Thwomp thumping deals damage to all troopers on the ground.
DEF shows a character's defense. The higher the number, the less damage a character will take in battle.
Ally SPEED Down!
Wendy can use the Captain Command Pass the Bob-omb to quickly turn the tables.
If you hit the Bob-omb at a high point, it will return slowly to your opponent. Hit it at a low point and it will return quickly.
Adjust the timing of your hits so that the Bob-omb is with your opponent when it explodes.
Lots of enemy Melee and Ranged troopers will appear in this quest, so deploying Melee troopers is recommended.
Note that Dry Bones are strong against Koopa Troopas, and are also handy allies against Flying troopers.
A new entry was added to your Battle Actions guide.
Alrighty! Time to show you the fruits of my labor!
I'll jump like a mustachioed fiend, and then stomp down hard...
RIGHT ON YOUR STUPID HEAD!
You can view challenge details in the Challenges section of the Records menu.
Flying Fun
LUCK 30%↑ for all allies
Rally
Toad Rescue
A unit will not be the target of enemy attacks while they are playing dead. Their HP will also recover slowly over time in this state.
Press the  Button right as the Thwomp falls to move your allies out of the way and avoid receiving damage.
SPEED shows how fast a character is. The higher the number, the shorter the time between battle actions.
Enemy SPEED Down!
A new entry was added to your Formation Menu guide.
Just gotta press the  Button when I collide with my foe!
They have a hard shell and painful spikes. Though small, their spin attack is mighty! They seem to be weak against Lakitus.
Ranged Revenge
HP 15%↑ for all allies
Chance
Popple's Partner, Part 2
A thrown weapon or beam will pierce through an opponent and damage all enemies behind them.
This effect will end once the enemy realizes they are only pretending. Press the  Button at any time to spur the unit back into battle.
SPIRIT shows a character's fighting spirit. It's rumored that the higher this number is, the easier it is to use Special Skills...
Melee and Flying troopers will seek out the closest enemy without an opponent and begin fighting.
Ally SPIRIT Up!
A new entry was added to your Battle Basics guide.
YEAH, BABY!
Enemies frequently seen in the Beanbean Kingdom. They move and hop about the battlefield.
Ranged x2 Hind Support
EVASION 20%↑ for all allies
Play Dead
A Goomba Tail
Knock an opponent backwards and into the unit behind them. The other unit also receives damage.
Press the  Button when the moving cursor is squarely placed over the target.
Squads that go into battle always have one captain.
Ranged troopers behave a bit differently. If they see an ally engaged in battle, they will assist them from the rear.
Enemy SPIRIT Up!
We need backup! Hurry!
That was awesome! Turns out my Special Skill is epic!
Ahhh, gotcha.
Ranged x3 Hind Support
Lightning
Press the  Button right as your trooper slams into their opponent!
Victory is determined when the captain of either side has their HP reduced to zero.
If there are no allies battling nearby, or if a lone enemy closes in, they will begin fighting.
Ally SPIRIT Down!
 (LV ) arrived as backup!
What? More enemies?! I wonder how many battles await me...
I'll add more cards when I think up new commands. Or something. I dunno...
Foes that strongly resemble Spinies and are weak against Lakitus. Stepping on those spikes hurts A LOT.
Captain! Before we move out, you should take a look at our squad's status.
Flying x2 Hind Support
Parry
You can switch out the units in your squad in the Formation menu.
Enemy SPIRIT Down!
Erk! They got me!
Enemy reinforcements arrived!
Oh, right! Pressing START will show how many battles I have left.
I'll put that know-how to good use!
Wow. I don't know what to say!
On the top screen you can check the level and strength of the units going into battle.
I know this is all a lot to swallow, so for now I'll just explain the most important parts.
Flying x3 Hind Support
Pass the Bob-omb
#: Captain Koopa Troopa's Melee Squad
To change the units shown on the top screen, select the units you wish to add in from the bottom screen.
Ally ACCURACY Up!
I'm a goner!
You can now utilize Captain Commands!
Use these skills as needed in response to the flow of battle.
Captain Points (CP) are required to use Captain Commands.
You can perform Captain Commands by using the +Control Pad.
You can also use them by tapping the icons on the bottom screen.
Right there you can see the level of the squad you'll deploy in battle.
As your team grows stronger, this number will increase.
Half-and-Half A
Thwomp Thump
You can view the status of characters on the bottom screen when switching them in and out of your squad.
Enemy ACCURACY Up!
I see...a bright light...
Maybe I wasted my time on this, but... it seemed a captain-y thing to do...
You've already chosen which quest to do next on the bottom screen, but now...
Half-and-Half B
Clash of Captains
A bean that grants 5,000 EXP, regardless of unit type.
Increases SPIRIT and temporarily makes Special Skills easier to execute.
Ally ACCURACY Down!
This is it! I'm done for!
No, not at all. It's fine, really. Let's give it a whirl!
Heh. Who knew you were so eager to help us win.
Look there! That shows the level of the enemy squad that will appear in that quest!
Half-and-Half C
Shell Shock
Ranged EXP Beans DX
Mega Tackle
A trooper charges through foes before returning to their starting position. Deals damage to all enemies they run into along the way.
If you fulfill certain conditions, you can acquire items from the Rewards screen after battle.
Using amiibo
Lots of enemy Flying and Ranged troopers will appear in this quest.
Since Ranged troopers have no bad matchups here, you may want to rely heavily on that unit type.
Heh, yeah...
A veritable flying fortress. Their bodies are protected by a hard shell. Weak against their rivals, the Buzzy Beetles.
Try comparing the level of your squad with that of the enemy.
If you want to level up your troops, you can try revisiting past quests.
Or you can just go on ahead if you think you can win despite the level difference.
What's that? You want something to turn the tides other than unit levels?
Hmm. Something other than levels... Ah! I know!
Recruit all types of Goomba Minions
A bean that gives 1,000 EXP to Flying troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
A bean that increases your SPIRIT by 1.
Chain Stomp
Throw a huge weapon and deal heavy damage to an opponent!
Press the  Button right as your trooper strikes their opponent.
When a battle begins, your Minions will each pick an opponent and start fighting automatically.
You can find more details about this in the Challenge section of the Records menu.
Records and Challenges
Lots of enemy Melee and Ranged troopers will appear in this quest.
Since Melee troopers have no bad matchups here, you may want to rely heavily on that unit type.
You've also got Bonus Skills on your side! Those will definitely help you win.
See that? That's a Bonus Skill.
Those can increase your stats based on the units you're sending into battle.
This one here activates when you have five or more Goombas in your squad.
There are tons of different Bonus Skills, so try lots of different squad formations.
Keep fighting and recruiting new Minions whenever possible!
Recruit all types of Koopa Troopa Minions
#: Captain Koopa Troopa's Flying Squad
Double Trouble Koopaling Caper
A bean that gives 100 EXP to Flying troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Rocket Headbutt
Press the  Button when the moving cursor is squarely placed over the target.
When they are finished with one opponent, they will choose another, moving to its location to fight.
Saving in Minion Quest
Those deep red gloves are proof of their strength. They especially like to break mechanical things.
You can view a list of your Bonus Skills in the Skills section of the Records menu.
The Records menu can be found on the Minion Quest title screen.
You recruited Captain Goomba (Gold)!
Recruit all types of Shy Guy Minions
A Tale of Tails
Cranium Crush
Your play data in Minion Quest is saved after you clear a quest.
Minion Menu
They may move slowly, but their HP is their pride. Watch out for the spines that cover their bodies! Weak against boomerang wielders.
You recruited Captain Koopa Troopa (Gold)!
Recruit all types of Boo Minions
Rumble in the Castle!
Replay events you've already seen.
Dive Attack
Challenges
Squad Formation
Lots of enemy Flying troopers will appear in this quest. It's recommended to match Ranged troopers against this unit type.
Also note that Chuck Guys are rumored to be strong against red Koopa Paratroopas...
Remember that Melee troopers will charge ahead and battle the Flying troopers.
If you also deploy Ranged troopers to deal with the Flying troopers from the back, you should have a good shot at victory!
Magikoopas dressed in red. They use their magic wands to raise a nearby unit's POW!
Their bodies are much lighter than they appear. They charge headfirst into foes with great power!
A Star Sprite with unsurpassed SPEED. Rumored to be especially strong against mechanical baddies.
You recruited Captain Boo (Gold)!
Recruit all types of Melee troopers
Gold Beanie's Final Stand
Throw the Fight
Unit Placement
Bonus Skills
They resemble regular Troopeas but are a bit stronger. They're quite proud of that vibrant color.
Recruit all types of Flying troopers
Captain Boo Trial
DEF Beans
Melee EXP Beans L
Air Bash
Ups the SPEED of a trooper and their surrounding allies, allowing for more battle actions.
About Matching
Dismissing Units
They resemble Goombas but are...much grittier. Those spears make for powerful headbutts.
Recruit all types of Ranged troopers
Goomba's Worth
Melee EXP Beans M
A bean that grants 2,000 EXP, regardless of unit type.
Smack Back Attack
Press the  Button each time the moving cursor is squarely placed over the target.
Press the  Button when the meter is at its highest point!
Critical Hits
Details
's DEF increased!
Mighty Masks B
Defeat 1,000 enemies
#: Captain Koopa Troopa's Ranged Squad
Showdown Time!!
A bean that gives 10 EXP to Flying troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
A bean that grants 300 EXP, regardless of unit type.
Move above the enemy, and then drop down with great force to deal lots of damage.
Spin Cycle
Each time a button input is successfully performed, the number of projectiles increases, all of which are eventually fired at once.
Spike Damage
Enemy Information
's SPEED increased!
Lots of enemy Flying and Ranged troopers will appear in this quest. Relying heavily on Ranged troopers is recommended.
Also note that Fire Bros. are rumored to be weak against Ice Bros...
Melee
Super Mask Squad
Clear 100 quests
Believe in Bowser
Melee EXP Bean L
The big drop happens after a mid-air spin. Press the  Button as your trooper lands!
Placement and Matching Notes
's SPIRIT increased!
Boo Brigade
Recruit 100 Minions
 learned ""!
Goombas Galore
The Mightiest Minions
Melee EXP Bean M
If you scan a compatible amiibo, you can increase how many captains you have and also have fun with stamps.
's ACCURACY increased!
Super Boo Brigade
Exclusive to Shy Guys. Sends in one of your reserve troopers to charge into battle and back you up.
Turnip Tantrum
Captain Goomba Trial (Gold)
You can scan a compatible amiibo after selecting Register amiibo to add a captain to your game.
's EVASION increased!
They use their small bodies to bob and weave about. Especially strong against Chargin' Chucks, but weak against Broozers.
Ice Cloud
Exclusive to Boos. A stealthy attack from behind an enemy captain. Can it be pulled off against types you're weak to?
Minions vs. Minions
You will be able to use stamps once you receive a stamp sheet in the main story mode.
Magikoopas dressed in white. They use their magic wands to raise a nearby unit's SPEED!
Dance of the Green Shells
Hunger Pains
Melee EXP Beans S
Raises a trooper's EVASION, but beware! You still will not be able to evade Special Skill attacks.
Hey, Cap!
That padding makes for high POW and DEF. They tend to go overboard with their brawn and are weak against Mechakoopas.
A more powerful variation of Limbo Bros. Their Smack Back Attack is quite strong.
Red Boots of Courage
#: Captain Shy Guy's Melee Squad
Battle Tail
Chain Chomp and Spike Stomp
Stages Cleared
Ranged EXP Bean DX
A bean that grants 30 EXP, regardless of unit type.
Gather power and cause projectiles to hail down on and damage multiple surrounding foes.
Press the  Button when the meter is at its highest point!
Criminy! Ranged troopers?! What does that...even mean?
Reading amiibo... Do not remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
Danger Abounds
/
The Rival Trio
Fireball and Boomerang Crossfire
Battles Won
You can receive Friendly Bonuses by registering amiibo and sharing stamps with your friends' Nintendo 3DS systems.
Jump atop an opponent's head, and then jump some more to chain together up to two stomps.
Press the  Button quickly to build up power. The more power that is built up, the more projectiles your trooper will be able to throw.
*sigh* Squads are made up of three different types of units.
They strongly resemble Paratroopeas. Full of pride for those bright shells.
Writing data to the amiibo... Do not remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
Glorious Manes
Captain Shy Guy Trial
Enemies Defeated
Melee EXP Bean S
SPEED Bean
You can scan amiibo that have been used to stamp on the Friendly Bonus screen to receive items.
Press the  Button right as your trooper stomps down. Succeed to get another chance to stomp!
Evasion Cloak
Prepare yourself!
So us Goombas are... Melee troopers?
The greatest thief in the kingdom...or so he says. Recruited the amnesiac Bowser as his underling.
They can use Whomping Wallop to attack all foes in front of them. Weak against Boomerang Bros.
They tread lightly on tiny legs. Weak to Fire Bros. and Fire Stalking Piranha Plants.
Proud and Round
Larry's Fortress
Excellent Ratings
Sure Shot
You'll never succeed!
You're a sharp one, Cap. Now I'm gonna tell ya something.
It's extreeeeeemely important. So listen up!
Professor E. Gadd's Research
Recruited Minions
Ranged EXP Beans L
Feed the Speed
Step it up!
Lots of enemy Ranged troopers will appear in this quest, so deploying Melee troopers is recommended.
If you deploy Fly Guys, who are strong against Ice Bros., you will be better off when facing Melee troopers.
We'll start with Ranged troopers.
That type throws weapons and shoots projectiles.
You, uh...have my attention.
A harmony of heavy shell and light wings. Strong against Spear Guys and other spear-wielding enemies.
#: Captain Shy Guy's Flying Squad
Beanbean Crossfire
Oh, Hi, Shy Guy!
Ranged EXP Beans M
Deny
Show yourself!
Lots of enemy Ranged troopers will appear in this quest, so deploying Melee troopers is recommended.
Rumor also has it that Fire Bros. are weak against Ice Bros...
Flying troopers fly around and attack from the sky.
As I said, Ranged troopers throw weapons to attack.
That means they specialize in fighting against Flying troopers.
They spit out powerful flames. Still, they're easily burned themselves, what with being plants and all.
???
Rally
Last but not least, Melee troopers charge fearlessly into enemies.
Flying troopers, on the other hand, move freely through the sky.
That means they have an advantage over Melee troopers, who fight on the ground.
Touch the Goomba, Koopa Troopa, or Boo amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer.
Mega Tackle
Ranged EXP Bean L
Chance
It seems that a bunch of  troopers take part in this battle...
Try raising your squad level or changing your formation, all while being mindful of the game's difficulty balance.
Lemmy is skilled at using the Captain Command Parry to avoid attacks.
It may be a sound strategy to use a Captain Command that will force him into a direct confrontation.
What about Melee troopers, like us proud Goombas?
Defeated all eight enemies!
Post-battle EXP increased by %!
Their calcium-deficient bodies are weak. They despise losing to Koopa Troopas.
Keep holding the amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer.
Chain Stomp
Ranged EXP Bean M
A bean that increases your DEF by 1.
If you register a Goomba, Koopa Troopa, or Boo amiibo as your amiibo, your game data will be saved to it.
Play Dead
Let's start things off with Melee!
Behold my power!
Ludwig can use the Captain Command Rally to raise his squad's SPIRIT, allowing them to use Special Skills more frequently.
If you can save up enough CP in advance, you can use Deny to prevent them from using their Special Skills...
Cackletta's faithful underling. Fights as a Ranged trooper.
Remove the amiibo from the NFC area.
Rocket Headbutt
Super EXP Beans L
Data of allies you've gathered in Minion Quest can also be found on your registered amiibo.
Lightning
Next up is Flying!
Time to finish this!
Ludwig can use the Captain Command Thwomp Thump to end the fight quickly.
Pay close attention to the Thwomp, and try to press the button right before it hits the ground.
You can't beat that poker face. They excel at evasion and pummeling Lakitus and Lakipeas with turnips.
Back
Cranium Crush
Super EXP Beans M
By registering amiibo, you can add more captains or get bonuses by using stamps.
Parry
Now we'll settle the score with some Ranged action!
Damage dealt to all enemy Flying troopers!
Let's give it our all!
They like to throw their special spear and weave about. Especially strong against Pestnuts, but weak against red Koopa Paratroopas.
Dive Attack
#: Captain Shy Guy's Ranged Squad
Flying Beans in the Desert
Ranged EXP Beans S
Pass the Bob-omb
HOLD UP! TIME OUT!
Those traitors are Ranged troopers who like to throw Hammers!
Cackletta's faithful underling. Fights as a Flying trooper.
Throw the Fight
Dismiss
A Dry Bone to Pick
Damage dealt to all enemy Ranged troopers!
Is this...correct?
They resemble regular Chuck Guys but believe themselves to be superior with a spear. Weak against red Koopa Paratroopas.
Receive Bonus
HP 5%↑ and POW 5%↑ for all allies
Air Bash
King of the Boos
The Beastly Bean Battalion
"" quest was added to .
All units have a distinctive battle technique called a Special Skill.
Attention! Listen up, everyone!
You OK?
Cackletta's faithful servant with extreme fury issues. Brainwashes Bowser's Minions to take over the world.
Rare Beanies with a gloriously golden glow. Defeat one to win lots of EXP.
Preparing bonus...
Remove the amiibo from the bottom screen.
HP 10%↑ for Goombas
The Minions Are...Famous?
Ranged EXP Bean S
During battle, you can tell a unit is about to use a Special Skill when "!" appears above their head.
So being the captain is tough after all... What an emotional roller coaster!
They have explosive power upon impact. Handle these Melee troopers with care.
Bonus received!
HP 10%↑ for Paragoombas
Smack Back Attack
Spangle's Honey Pie
If you succeed at the attack's button input, you can score a bonus, such as a stronger attack or a power-up.
Destroy the fink-rats of my current fury havings!
???
Touch the Goomba, Koopa Troopa, or Boo amiibo to the bottom screen.
HP 10%↑ and SPIRIT 10%↑ for allies
Gold Beanie Returns
Super EXP Beans S
The end is here and full of finishings!
Lots of enemy Melee and Ranged troopers will appear in this quest, so a balance of Flying and Ranged troopers is recommended.
Note that Boomerang Bros. are strong against Pokeys and that red Koopa Paratroopas are strong against Spear Guys.
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. Has incredibly high EVASION.
Keep holding the amiibo to the bottom screen.
7 or more giant units
DEF 10%↑ for all allies
 said good-bye and left behind a .
The Paraplonk Squad's Secret!
A skill that only Shy Guy captains can use. Randomly summons another ally unit to assist in battle for that stage only.
I'll prove my superiority!
It's now or never!
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. Moves slowly, but just one attack can break through rock.
Shy Guys who fly through the sky. No lie! Some say they know the weakness of the Ice Bros...
They're proud of their POW, despite their small size. Quite speedy, so try to take them down quickly.
Powerful Pestnuts that thrive underwater. Those sharp spikes are a real threat. Weak against Spear Guys.
Remove the amiibo from the bottom screen.
DEF 10%↑ for all allies
Deep Trouble
Battle Beach
Use the  Button to throw the Bob-omb in question back and forth between the two captains.
This ability cannot be used if you have eight units on the battlefield.
Fight me, coward!
DEF 10%↑ and HP 10%↑ for all allies
Cutie Battle Contest, Round 1
If you hit the Bob-omb when it's low, it will fly quickly towards your opponent. If you hit it when it's high, it will return slowly.
Let's say the enemy has only Melee and Ranged troops, but you've entered the battle with Melee and Flying troops...
Ally POW Up!
Lots of enemy Ranged troopers will appear in this quest. It's recommended to match Melee troopers against this unit type.
Even still, it's safe to deploy a Ranged trooper as your captain since the enemy has a Flying trooper as their captain.
The amiibo has been updated.
DEF 20%↑ for all allies
Cutie Battle Contest, Round 2
A bean that increases your HP by 1.
As time passes, the Bob-omb will gradually start to change. Be extremely careful when it grows bigger and turns red!
The points at which a character can take their turn in battle varies depending on the unit.
The battle will start with the Melee troopers of both sides attacking each other. That means the Flying troopers in the back will have to battle the Ranged troopers they're weak against.
Enemy POW Up!
Behold our Minion spirit!
This is not the correct amiibo.
ACCURACY 15%↑ for all allies
Your squad is full! Please choose a trooper to part ways with...
Cutie Battle Contest, Semifinals
The higher the character's SPEED, the more actions they will be able to perform in battle.
In this case, if you had deployed more Melee troops, you wouldn't have been forced to fight at a disadvantage.
You can change the Captain Commands that your captains use during battle.
Ally POW Down!
It seems that a bunch of  troopers take part in this battle. Rumor has it they're weak to  troopers...
Try raising your squad level or changing your formation, all while being mindful of the game's difficulty balance.
ACCURACY 10%↑ for all allies
Your squad has fewer than eight units. Are you sure you want to proceed?
The Power of Koopa Troopas
In other words, placement and matching play a big role in determining how successful the troops you place in battle will be.
Press the  Button while in the Formation or Fortify menus to see detailed information for the unit you have selected.
The Captain Commands available will change depending on the captain.
Enemy POW Down!
I'll finish this neatly with a trusty Bob-omb!
It seems that a bunch of  troopers take part in this battle. Rumor has it they're weak to  and  troopers...
Try raising your squad level or changing your formation, all while being mindful of the game's difficulty balance.
Beanies that fly through the air. They soar about the battlefield on small wings.
Power Up
POW Bean
Super EXP Beans DX
There you'll find info about a unit's abilities and strengths—and perhaps even some other tidbits you won't find anywhere else...
Put the Captain Commands you learn to good use, and try to pick out the ones you like best.
Ally DEF Up!
What happening is this?!
Focus and dodge! FOCUS AND DODGE!
You can view a list of your Bonus Skills in the Skills section of the Records menu.
Um... Cease your... Halt... WAIT JUST A SECOND!
A big ol' Boo. It's slow, but it flies and has incredible HP and POW.
Cackletta's faithful underling. Fights as a Melee trooper.
Mass-produced robots that serve Fawful. They fire powerful beams from their chests.
Evasion Cloak
A skill that only Goomba captains can use. Head toward the opposing squad's captain and challenge them to a showdown!
Enemy DEF Up!
Your squad isn't scary at all!
Hm? What is it? What's up, Cap?
Sure Shot
#: Captain Goomba's Melee Squad
Flying EXP Beans L
Temporarily shrinks opponents. All status attributes decrease while units are in this state.
Note that Goomba will receive damage from any opponents encountered along the way. Use carefully when enemies abound!
Ally DEF Down!
Do your worst! I'm a master dodger!
Morton can use the Captain Command Chance to strengthen his squad, or Call for Backup to summon more allies.
His squad of Chargin' Chucks are powerful. If only you had a Boo Captain who could help you turn the tables...
I just need to...take this... and do this...and that...
Failed to write data to the amiibo. Please go to Register amiibo and try again.
This amiibo has already been registered to a different save file. To register this amiibo to this save file, please delete the existing game data on this amiibo.
Feed the Speed
's CP increased by !
Super EXP Bean DX
Flying EXP Beans M
Increases a trooper's DEF.
Within your ranks, there will be certain units with special characteristics that make them strong or weak against certain opponents.
Enemy DEF Down!
Keehee... I'll go ahead and avoid that.
What is THAT stuff? A board? And cards?
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. Has high ACCURACY and is secretly great at sniping.
Mass-produced robots that serve Fawful. Those heads are known to fly about.
Swing a tail or weapon to deal damage to surrounding foes.
Press the  Button when the meter is at its highest point.
Win by defeating the opposing captain. Do so, and all of your Minions who battled will gain EXP.
On the Formation screen, you can highlight a character to view more detailed information about them.
Ally SPEED Up!
Yeah. Those are, um... Captain Commands.
Those Hammers are deadly from a distance. Their Rain of Pain attack is to be feared!
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. You'll pay dearly if you underestimate her power!
Flying EXP Bean L
Press the  Button right as your trooper slams into their opponent!
Minions will grow stronger when they accrue enough EXP to gain a level.
When you successfully attack an enemy you're strong against, CRITICAL will appear above the opponent's head.
You can mark characters as your favorites (★) in the Formation menu by tapping them and holding down on the bottom screen.
Huh.
Recruit 20 Goomba Minions
Flying EXP Bean M
If you ever feel that enemies are too strong to handle, try battling easier opponents to increase your Minions' levels.
There are times when you can activate Bonus Skills by changing up your formation.
These units are stronger than those without the ★ mark, so be sure to train them with care.
Roy can use the Captain Command Shell Shock to attack all units in front of him.
It may be a good strategy to prepare for a captain showdown by deploying a Flying-type captain.
I've been thinking of how I can help our squad out...
And I turned those ideas into fun and functional cards!
They throw fireballs as well as a Mario Bro! Burning Fuzzbushes and Pokeys is a cinch, but they're weak to Ice Bros.
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. Has a great balance of POW and DEF.
HP 10%↑ and DEF 5%↑ for all allies
Recruit 20 Koopa Troopa Minions
???/???
#: Captain Goomba's Flying Squad
A Muster of Masks
Activating Bonus Skills will increase the attributes of units going into battle.
Watch me win, see?
What's this one mean? It says "Deny" on it.
HP 20%↑ for all allies
Recruit 20 Shy Guy Minions
Warning!
Gather the Cruiser Parts!
SPEED Beans
Try experimenting with different unit formations and finding the Bonus Skills that suit you best.
When an enemy is about to use a Special Skill, I shout to stop them!
ACCURACY 20%↑ for all allies
???
Recruit 20 Boo Minions
Power Play
HP Bean
Flying EXP Beans S
Randomly awards a bonus, such as increased EXP for clearing a stage.
She wears a pretty red ribbon atop her pink head. Known to build up power and spit out eggs.
Though their POW is average, be mindful of their high HP! They hate turnips and the Shy Guys who throw them.
POW 10%↑ for all allies
Use beans to fortify 50 times
's CP increased by !
Spear Party on Ice
Monochrome Explosion
Spin and smash into enemies. Successfully perform button inputs to attack foes up to three times.
Minion Battles
Melee troopers charge toward their opponents. They will always line up towards the front, no matter what unit types they're paired with.
An elite Shy Guy with big dreams. His cowardly nature is great for dodging.
Condition
DEF 10%↑ and HP 5%↑ for all allies
Defeat 300 enemies
Gold Beanie Fights Back!
Knock an opponent into the air to deal heavy damage. This attack also lowers the foe's defense.
Press the  Button right as your trooper strikes their opponent.
Defeating Enemies
Your Minions will attack opponents as soon as it's their turn to fight.
Ranged troopers excel at providing rear support. They will always line up towards the back, no matter what unit types they're paired with.
King Bowser's only son. Rumored to be especially strong against Magikoopas.
The dashing prince of the fair Beanbean Kingdom. Rumored to particularly enjoy conquering Gold Beanies.
HP 15%↑ and DEF 5%↑ for all allies
Recruit 20 spiky Minions
Return of the Koopa Cruiser
Flying EXP Bean S
Registering amiibo
Press the  Button right as your trooper slams into their opponent!
An opponent is defeated when their HP has been reduced to zero.
Defeat a Captain to Win
Flying troopers will line up behind Melee troopers or in front of Ranged troopers for their attacks.
Enemy ACCURACY Down!
Come hither, my Thwomp! CRUSH THEM ALL!!
All eight allies survived!
Post-battle EXP increased by %!
They strongly resemble Koopa Paratroopas. The leaves on their heads are good luck.
Register an amiibo to use with this save data.
Burly Brigade
HP 15%↑ and SPIRIT 10%↑ for allies
Receive 100 EXCELLENT ratings
Call for Backup
#: Captain Goomba's Ranged Squad
The Trio's Last Stand
Stamps
Win to Grow
Allies and enemies alike follow these rules. When many different unit types are mixed together, just remember that Melee troopers are in front and Ranged troopers are in back.
Information for the squad about to go into battle can be found on the top screen during quest selection. Peruse using the  and  Buttons.
Ally EVASION Up!
Report for duty! NOW!
A rare type of Boo that explodes! They are especially strong against Ice Snifits.
The amiibo registration was successful!
Gallant Goombas A
POW 15%↑ and SPIRIT 10%↑ for allies
Clear 50 quests
Sneak Attack
Captain Boo Trial (Gold)
Friendly Bonuses
All About Stats
When units of the same type are used in battle, their position is determined by the order in which they were selected in the Formation menu.
This allows you to see the attributes and skills of units going into battle.
Enemy EVASION Up!
You can scan compatible amiibo to increase how many captains you have.
Now that you've registered an amiibo, there's a new captain for you to use!
Gallant Goombas B
HP 20%↑ and POW 10%↑ for all allies
Recruit 50 Minions
Shy Guy Barrage
Records
Deleting amiibo Game Data
Turn Order
When you're deploying multiple unit types, the troopers of each type that were added first will line up in the middle of each battle lane.
Units being deployed can be changed from the Formation menu.
Ally EVASION Down!
They look like Boomerang Bros., but more stylish. Their sunglasses kind of make them look evil... Strong against Pokeys and Goomba Towers.
Mass-produced robots that serve Fawful. They charge into foes with their giant bodies.
A harmony of heavy shell and light wings. They spin around in the air and attack their enemies from above!
Reading amiibo...
Super Goomba Squad
DEF 20%↑ and LUCK 20%↑ for allies
Surprises an opponent and cancels their Special Skill before they can pull it off.
Go, Goomba, Go!
Boo Party!
A bean that gives 3,000 EXP to Flying troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Prevents an opponent from using a Special Skill they have just started.
Power Triangle
Enemy EVASION Down!
Focus! For Lord Bowser!
For Lord Fawful!
Your foes have become small and weak!
Heroic Shells A
Cheers on the whole squad and raises their SPIRIT for a limited time.
This Beans War
Captain Goomba Trial
Aim a unit's body or weapon at an enemy and crash into them with great force to deal damage to the foe in front.
Deny will only work when an exclamation mark is over an enemy's head. It won't have any effect if it's used otherwise.
Special Skills
Your allies have become small and weak!
It seems that a bunch of  and troopers take part in this battle...
Try raising your squad level or changing your formation, all while being mindful of the game's difficulty balance.
Heroic Shells B
Creates a block that can be hit to score a bonus.
For the Love of Hammers
Spinies Abound!
Aim for an opponent's head from up high, and then crash into them at a high speed!
Press the  Button right when your trooper has leaned all the way back.
Captain Commands
We'll settle this with a Bob-omb!
I'm hitting a block now! WATCH!!
There was no bonus to receive.
Super Shell Squad
Feigns defeat on the battlefield so enemies will turn their attention elsewhere.
#: Captain Boo's Melee Squad
Winged Traitors
Press the  Button right as your trooper slams into their opponent!
Quit this quest and return to before it began?
Can't stop to rhyme! It's Bob-omb time!
Defeated all eight enemies!
All eight allies survived!
Post-battle EXP increased by %!
You can now customize Captain Commands!
This allows you to change the position of actions you've learned, or to swap them out altogether.
Dreams of Buzzy Beetles
Shrinks and weakens enemies for a limited time.
The Hoohoo Melee Brigade
SPIRIT Bean
Your gameplay information for Minion Quest can be found in the Records menu.
I'll finish this with a Bob-omb!
Unstoppable when they're off their chains. Difficult to control and highly destructive.
Bros. Bonanza!
Completely blocks two enemy attacks. Time it perfectly to counterattack!
Don't Fear Flying Foes
Kaboom Bash
You can receive medals and items by fulfilling certain conditions.
Favorites ★
's POW increased!
Bob-ombs away! Keeheeheeee!
Your attacks are useless!
Ranged
Mighty Masks A
Starts a game of catch with the enemy captain using a Bob-omb on the verge of exploding.
The Great Hammer Barrage
Ice Bros. Feel the Heat
Rain of Pain
Challenge yourself to set all sorts of records!
Strengthening Units with Items
Private Goomp can continuously put himself in danger to use his Special Skill, Rocket Headbutt.
Perhaps you could make good use of the Captain Command Deny to prevent him from using his Special Skill...
Look. You know those ! symbols that appear before a Special Skill is used?
Foes that pride themselves on their POW. They strike the ground with giant clubs.
This amiibo has already been registered. Would you like to update data? 
No
Yes
Recruit "that guy"
Drops a mean Thwomp that deals heavy damage to everyone on the ground! Can be avoided by jumping.
Goombas vs. Goombas
A bean that gives 3,000 EXP to Melee troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Spitfire Fury
Ups the ACCURACY of a trooper and their surrounding allies.
Changing Captain Commands
Keehee... Time to get serious!
You mean like...this one here?
Learn all Captain Commands
Exclusive to Goombas. A showdown with the opposing captain. Be mindful of the damage that will be taken from enemies along the way!
Do you really wish to dismiss this unit?
#: Captain Boo's Flying Squad
The Amnesiac Koopa King
A War of Shy Guys and Flybys
Pokey Panic
A bean that increases your SPEED by 1.
Spit out flames or projectiles to damage foes in front.
Chain Shot
Press the  Button when the meter is at its highest point!
The enemy unit types in this quest will vary greatly from battle to battle, so it's advised to deploy a variety of unit types.
When the going gets tough, it may be a good strategy to rely on Captain Commands to turn the tide of battle.
Whoa... It seems like it would hurt to get hit by those guys...
Affirmative! Now, while that ! is there...
just tap the Deny icon or press up on the +Control Pad.
They hustle about atop a cloud. They're strong against Beanies and Spinies, but their weakness is a Shy Guy's turnip attack.
The go-to soldiers among Bowser's Minions. They move fast and charge into foes!
You can only register the same character's amiibo two times. This character's amiibo has already been registered twice.
Perform all skills
Exclusive to Koopa Troopas. A spinning shell attack! Damages all nearby foes.
Flying EXP Beans DX
To delete amiibo game data, choose "amiibo Settings" in the HOME Menu Settings.
Face a foe and fly forward to give them a powerful headbutt!
Press the  Button quickly to build up power. The more power that is built up, the more projectiles your trooper will be able to throw.
Whomping Wallop
Lots of enemy Flying and Ranged troopers will appear in this quest, so deploying plenty of Ranged troopers is recommended.
Also note that when Larry uses the Captain Command Rally, he increases his squad's SPIRIT, allowing them to use Special Skills more often.
Maybe you can save up enough CP in advance so you can use Deny to prevent them from using their Special Skills...
Huh? What's wrong?
Aha! If you do that, the foe won't be able to use its Special Skill!
Those hard shells aren't just for show! They boast the Rock Solid ability, and their defense is airtight.
Register owner and nickname? 
Don't register
Register
Recruit all characters
Challenge complete!
Item acquired!
Press the  Button right as your trooper slams into their opponent.
Charging Champ
Those guys are all spiky!
If you touch one of them, you'll take some damage!
Use beans to fortify 200 times
Spin to Win
...
The final enemy is strong. It will prove difficult to win with one Goomba alone, even if it's THE Captain Goomba.
If only there was a Captain Command you could use to get right up in the face of the enemy captain...
Foes like Spinies, however, only have spikes on top.
That means hitting them from the side is fair game.
*deep Goomba breath*
The captain that just joined your squad can be used once you clear three quests in Minion Quest.
Receive 500 EXCELLENT ratings
Piercing Projectile
There are Melee troopers in this quest, so it will prove difficult to win with just one Shy Guy.
If only there was a Captain Command you could use that would let you summon an ally to help fight enemy troopers...
But those round guys are covered in spikes. That'll hurt no matter what.
GOOMBA SQUAD! MOOOOVE OUT!!!
This amiibo has been registered, and game data has been saved to it.
Raise a Minion's level to 40
The Tough-As-Nails Squad
POW Beans
Rock Solid
Ally HP restored by %!
The enemies here aren't terribly tough, but there are a lot of them.
If only there were some way you could use a Captain Command to weaken all enemies...
Yikes! That's terrifying...
Goombas who soar the sky with grace. With a spin they can do a Cranium Crush.
To delete amiibo game data, choose "amiibo Settings" in the HOME Menu Settings.
Proud and Spiny
Defeat 1,500 enemies
#: Captain Boo's Ranged Squad
Captain Koopa Troopa Trial (Gold)
Power Up
Enemy HP restored by %!
If you try to defeat these foes one-on-one, even Koopa Troopa's high defense won't be enough to protect him from a tough battle.
If only there was a Captain Command that could deal damage to all of the enemies in front of him...
 CP Restored!
Spike damage may be minimal, but it'll get rough if you take too much of it.
When spikes can't be avoided, try to finish the fight quickly!
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. Powers up characters close to him.
An elite Koopa Troopa with big dreams. The bucket on his head gives him a tough defense.
They walk about while spitting out powerful flames. Hey, aren't Fuzzbushes and Pokeys flammable?
If you use your registered amiibo to stamp a friend's stamp sheet, you can receive a Friendly Bonus for this save file!
Green Power
Clear 200 quests
Crash into an enemy and explode. This also damages nearby foes. After your unit explodes, it will not reappear until the next battle.
Ultimate Shell Shock, GO!
HEY! Thwomp-face!
Ally Leader's CP restored by !
Many foes are standing between you and the enemy captain. Your chance for victory is low if you try to fight them all.
If only you could use a Captain Command to either avoid most of the enemies or to defeat them all at once...
＋ EXP
Understood! No arguments here!
It's time... Hey, Cap! A battle has begun!
Team Throw
POW 5%↑ and HP 5%↑ for all allies
Recruit 150 Minions
Shell Brigade, Move Out!
Super EXP Bean L
Melee EXP Beans DX
A bean that gives 1,000 EXP to Melee troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
If you use stamps in the main story mode, you can receive items...
Ram into an opponent with a powerful tackle!
Press the  Button right as your trooper strikes their opponent!
Hey, Thwomp! Over here!
Enemy Leader's CP restored by !
Keeheeheee...
The quickest way to victory is to make good use of Boo's ability to avoid enemy attacks.
If you can dodge enemy attacks with perfect timing, you can use Parry to deal damage with counterattacks!
Oh, I should mention that the fight ends when a captain bites the dust.
If you fall, it doesn't matter if our fellow Minions are still at it. It's all over.
Spinning Tails
HP 5%↑ and DEF 5%↑ for all allies
The Sweet Smell of Soda
Super EXP Bean M
A bean that gives 100 EXP to Melee troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
You can even add more playable stages in Minion Quest!
Press the  Button as your trooper slams into their foe.
Come here, Thwomp-breath!
Post-battle EXP increased by %!
The enemy Elite Troopeas are strong, but if you win their games of Pass the Bob-omb, you stand a chance at victory.
Hit the Bob-omb at a high point to return it slowly to the enemy. Hit it at a low point to return it quickly.
Adjust your timing so that the Bob-omb reaches your opponent right before it explodes.
Whaaat?! Is that true? That's...a lot of pressure.
Foes that strongly resemble Koopa Troopas. Their body is protected by a hard shell.
Wind It Up
HP 5%↑ and LUCK 5%↑ for all allies
Reclaim the Red Goblet!
Have a look at your handy Stamp Sheets to see which characters you can stamp!
Bring it, Thwomp!
Damage dealt to all allies!
True. But the same goes for our opponent's team too.
If we take down the captain of the opposing squad, we win!
We charge forward into close-quarter combat right in the faces of our foes!
Melee troopers are quick to attack and are strong against Ranged troopers.
Think of it as a Power Triangle of strengths and weaknesses.
Old Reliable
ACCURACY 10%↑ for all allies
Gold Beanie Appears
Goombas Unite
Damage dealt to all enemies!
Lots of enemy Ranged troopers will appear in this quest. It's recommended to match Melee troopers against this unit type.
Also note that Ice Bros. are rumored to be weak against Fly Guys...
So let us worry about taking down our enemies and defeating their captain.
You just try to focus on not being a big loser. I mean! On not losing.
In other words...we smash into dudes.
The Elite Trio
All units must be Melee troopers
LUCK 10%↑ for all allies
Forest Masquerade
Damage dealt to all ally Melee troopers!
So everything will be dandy so long as I stand strong and don't fall in battle...
Got it. Sounds like being the captain isn't as hard as I thought!
Yep. You'll figure out the rest along the way. Got it? Then let's go!
The Prince and the Mastermind
All units must be Flying troopers
DEF 10%↑ for all allies
Ice Guys Finish Last
Captain Commands are special abilities that only the captain can use. You will acquire more as you grow stronger.
Damage dealt to all enemy Melee troopers!
Okeydoke! Let's move out!
R-Right! Let's get moving!
That chilly ice is especially strong against Fire Bros. They're weak against those expressionless Fly Guys.
You can now enhance your characters! When you acquire beans in battle, try feeding them to your units.
Remove the amiibo from the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer.
Touch the Goomba, Koopa Troopa, or Boo amiibo to the bottom screen.
The Seven Koopalings!
All units must be Ranged troopers
EVASION 10%↑ for all allies
Invisible Leaderership
Thwomp Thump
Using Captain Commands will spend your CP. As you continue to engage in battles, a small amount of CP will recover over time.
Smackdown time!
Lots of enemy Ranged troopers will appear in this quest.
Melee troopers are strong against Ranged troopers. Deploy lots of them from the Formation menu!
Fellow Goombas! Give it your all!
SIR, YES, SIR!
They are completely covered in painful spikes. It hurts no matter where they hit you. Weak against Spear Guys.
Keep holding the amiibo to the bottom screen.
Super Rare Squad
6 Melee troopers and 2 Ranged troopers
POW 5%↑ and DEF 5%↑ for all allies
Close
Forest Fight
Flying EXP Bean DX
Super EXP Bean S
A bean that gives 10 EXP to Melee troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Clash of Captains
You wobbly-kneed punks!
Huh?! They're all charging at the same time...
Mighty dragons that can't fly, despite having wings. They charge forward when they spot an enemy.
Magikoopas dressed in green. They use their magic wands to raise a nearby unit's ACCURACY!
Touch the Goomba, Koopa Troopa, or Boo amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer.
Remove the amiibo from the bottom screen.
5 Melee troopers and 3 Ranged troopers
SPIRIT 5%↑ and LUCK 5%↑ for allies
Popple's Partner
Shell Shock
For Bowser's sake, they won't be frightened! No, really! Prone to mocking their foes and attacking from above.
Hey, Cap! Do you remember our spiel about the Power Triangle?
With that in mind, pick the units you'll deploy based on the enemies you'll face next.
Let's see... In the next quest, it seems you'll encounter...
Keep holding the amiibo to the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer.
6 Melee troopers and 2 Flying troopers
HP 5%↑ and DEF 5%↑ for all allies
Shy Guy Goes Overboard
DEF Bean
Call for Backup
A skill that only Boo captains can use. Stealthily appear behind the enemy captain for a sneak attack!
Lots of enemy Flying troopers will appear in this quest.
Ranged troopers are strong against Flying troopers. Deploy lots of them from the Formation menu!
Magikoopas dressed in blue. They tear into enemies from atop their brooms.
Ah, yes. Those handsome fellows.
You can tap their picture to view detailed enemy information.
Be sure to try that out later. Now, what to do?
As you saw, there will be Flying troops here...
Remove the amiibo from the NFC area on the Nintendo 3DS NFC Reader/Writer.
5 Melee troopers and 3 Flying troopers
Spin Cycle
A Cloudy Day
Sneak Attack
If Boo is discovered before attacking, his POW will decrease. Rumor has it he's more easily detected by troop types he's weak to...
A Goomba with dreams of grandeur. He's quite good at dodging attacks and avoiding being lectured.
Go ahead and open the Formation menu.
4 Melee troopers and 4 Flying troopers
Kaboom Bash
None of your changes will be saved. Continue?
Please register the amiibo again from Register amiibo.
OK! It's ready now.
They throw boomerangs with ample gusto. Strong against Pokeys and Goomba Towers.
Here you can swap out the units who will participate in battle.
Let's see, Flying troopers will take part in the next quest...
OK, so let's add in some Ranged troopers, since they're strong against Flying units.
4 Melee troopers and 4 Ranged troopers
Rain of Pain
A bean that gives 1,000 EXP to Ranged troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
Units are broken up into three different types.
It's time!
They spit up and throw Spike Balls at foes. Gross! The larger ones they throw are especially strong.
Love hurts, and so do those hearts they spit out! Their bodies are among the lightest in the kingdom.
Pick the fella that's glowing.
4 Flying troopers and 4 Ranged troopers
Spitfire Fury
A bean that gives 100 EXP to Ranged troopers. Effect is halved if eaten by other unit types.
A bean that increases your POW by 1.
Melee troopers fight with close combat. They're strong against Ranged troopers and weak against Flying troopers.
I'm a master dodger!
MORTON HITS BLOCK NOW!
Fight harder! Bahaha!
Let's go ahead and swap out that Goomba for a Hammer Bro.
Chain Shot
Details
 learned !
Melee EXP Bean DX
Flying troopers soar above the battlefield. They're strong against Melee troopers and weak against Ranged troopers.
When choosing a stage, you can view information about the enemies you will encounter there.
I've been hit!
BWAHA! COME HERE!
Although there are many Flying troopers here, Melee troopers take part as well.
Try deploying a squad that consists mainly of Ranged troopers, with some Flying troopers as backup support.
They've been swapped! Now you'll stand a chance against those Flying troopers.
Do you get how to use Formation now? Try out lots of different combinations!
When you're done, either press the START Button or tap DONE.
Whomping Wallop
Dismiss
Stamp Bonus
Ranged troopers like to throw things. They're strong against Flying troopers and weak against Melee troopers.
You can view more detailed information about an enemy by tapping their picture.
Come on!!
Although there are many Melee troopers here, Flying troopers take part as well.
Try deploying a squad that consists mainly of Flying troopers, with some Ranged troopers as backup support.
One of the seven notorious Koopalings. Quite proud of his incomparably high HP.
Fashion-forward Snifits sporting spiffy coats. They spit out rock-hard snowballs. Ouch! Weak against Bomb Boos.
A new entry was added to your Formation Menu guide!
Charging Champ
A skill that only Koopa Troopa captains can use. Spin around in a circle to attack surrounding foes.
Knowing the relationship between the unit types can mean the difference between victory and defeat. Try to remember the Power Triangle!
Pay careful attention to enemy information when choosing which units to take into battle.
Now I am having the seriousness!
Bulky blokes with high POW and HP. They can sweep up foes by spinning their tails.
ACCURACY 10%↑ for all allies
Spin to Win
A Gaggle of Goombas
SPIRIT Beans
NOW he will! Gah HAH!
Hammers are prohibited!
Basics #2: Damage and Defeat Foes
The Piranha Plants will heal Mom Piranha and perform counterattacks whenever she is damaged.
Watch out for their tail attack, which can strike multiple times.
Hints for Health
Heart
Chain Chomp
Hands are prohibited!
Attacking with JUMP
Their POW increases when they shout. While powered up, the timing of their impact wave is slower.
Piranha Plants can be defeated quickly if you target their weakness.
He steals items from Mario and Luigi and heals himself and Bowser.
With their copy ability, if they copy Mario, they will attack Luigi. If they copy Luigi, they will attack Mario.
Right Arm
Dragohoho
Items are prohibited!
Watch and Learn
If you find that Bros. Attacks are too difficult to perform, try utilizing Easy Attack Mode.
They will catch fire and start running when attacked with Firebrand and inflicted with the BURN status.
When Chuckolator's body shrinks, Bubbles will tell it corny jokes to help it recover.
Dry Bones throw their heads in whatever direction they're looking. Jump on their heads to damage them.
Attack red Piranha Plants with thunder and blue ones with fire. Depending on her color, these work on Mom Piranha too.
Popple has lower HP than Bowser, so trying to defeat him first is a good strategy.
ALL
Left Arm
Farewell, you two losers!
It's time you took a nice, relaxing break...
Basics #3: Watch Mario & Luigi's HP
Mario and Luigi can also perform actions during enemy attacks. They can do a jump guard when either of them crouches down.
Although this mode requires more BP, it makes it easier to successfully time Bros. Attacks.
If Chuckolator recovers too much health, its body will return to normal, so try to defeat it quickly with Bros. Attacks.
Mom Piranha can change her color and weakness, so be careful when using Hand Attacks.
Lemmy
Wiggler
Ouch! HOTNESS!
It is the overheat!
...in my belly!!!
Jump Guard
Press either character button to jump.
Press the  Button when selecting an attack to enable Easy Attack Mode.
She will heal if hit with a Firebrand attack. Try using your other abilities instead!
They fire Bullet Bills at their foes. When they run out of ammunition, they can't attack until they reload.
Trunkle
Wendy
What a wasting!
EEYAH HA HA!
Press  when Luigi swings his Hammer over his head. Mario will become Mini Mario!
You can avoid enemy attacks by jumping at the right moment. Time your jumps to land on enemies and deal damage as well.
Basics #4: Win Battles, Get Stronger
The amount of damage the attack deals will not be affected, so give it a try for attacks you're having trouble with.
If numbered blocks appear over Mario and Luigi, mash the buttons fast to break them. 
Calming Down Wiggler
They dive into their cloud before attacking. If they peek out above the cloud, they will attack Mario. If below, they'll attack Luigi.
HP shows a character's health. Taking damage causes it to decrease. Characters will faint if their HP reaches zero.
Hermie III
Blue Virus
Super Chopper Bros.
Mini Mario will ask Luigi for help. During that time, press the  Button.
Enemy Encounters
Jojora and Oholina Appear
If several fireballs appear, attack them to put them out. Area attacks are highly recommended.
Even if you defeat the Sharpeas that appear with them, Lakipeas will just produce more. Try to defeat Lakipea first!
You can spot their shape when a battle starts, so remember where they go under. Sharkbones counter whenever attacked.
Retry in Easy Mode
Red Virus
This move can hit two enemies. Press the  Button before Luigi jumps on Mario.
Press the  Button whenever Luigi's swings are about to hit Mario!
Basics #5: Status Attributes
When the color of her body changes to black, the Thunderhand attack will heal her.
These two will combine their power to perform Bros. Attacks against you.
They burrow into the ground and attack. Watch the ground to determine their target. They sometimes hold rare items.
Jojora
Yellow Virus
Press the  Button before hitting the ground to perform a big jump!
Mario will bounce back when he hits a foe. Luigi can then knock Mario into the foe again.
All of her attacks deal heavy damage, so mind your remaining HP.
They can't do this on their own, so concentrate on defeating Popple first, as he has lower HP.
Select
HAMMER
Chucklissa
Most Furious Fawful X
Eeker
Get an Excellent rating by jumping on enemies using → in the correct order!
Press  when Mario smashes into a foe. Press  to hit him again when he returns!
If you select Easy Mode, Mario and Luigi will become stronger, and enemies will be easier to defeat.
The mechanism on his head faces where he will attack, so use that as a guide for dodging!
Jump attacks are not very effective, so use a Hammer instead.
Conquering Gold Beanies
All of Bowser's attacks are strong, so mind your remaining HP!
Chucklissa
Most Furious Fawful Y
Hammer attacks are stronger if you wait a bit to press the button instead of pressing it right away.
... Do this successfully five times for an Excellent! Note that the speed gets faster!
After you've selected an attack, you can press the icon on the bottom screen to see an example of it or practice it.
You can select Easy Mode in the Options menu, or when you game over after losing a battle. Use it if you ever feel the game is too hard.
When he lowers to the ground, he's about to charge. Practice dodging him with a jump. Land on his head for a counterattack!
When you attack with a Hammer, it will guard with a shield. Damage the shield with Hammer attacks until it breaks.
Dodging Sniper Bills
Oholina
Most Furious Fawful Z
Yo Bro
Again, that's...one-and-a-two!
Select DEMO to view a tutorial video. This is a great way to learn the timing of moves.
When its shield is broken, use Hammer attacks on it. Just keep on hammering!
Oholina
Captain Goomba (Gold)
Oho Jee
Mario! Time to battle!
Please defeat Bowser, just like you always do!
Next we'll cover usin' Hammers to defend.
In PRACTICE, you can try attacks for yourself. Keep at it until you've mastered them.
Subduing Ice Snifits
Hoohoolia
Left Claw
Captain Goomba
Mario! You can jump by pressing the  Button! You probably knew that...
Imagine I'm an ugly monster and gimme your best shot!
Super Splash Bros. 
Hints for Improving
If you destroy the pillar where Hoohooros is hiding, he will emerge.
????
Cpt. Koopa Troopa (Gold)
Oho Jee
Ooh! So close! You almost had it, Mario!
If you time your button presses just right, you can perform two jump attacks on enemies!
Try perfecting your timing for the next jump!
All riiiiight!
Clumphs Hate Fire
They not only heal their allies, they can also resurrect defeated enemies. Defeat them first!
If there are other pillars present, he will immediately hide behind one of them after emerging.
????
Captain Koopa Troopa
Wahoo! That's our hero! Just as expected!
Check the guide if there's anything you're still fuzzy on.
Defeating Fawful
Beating Piranha Plants (Red)
Start by destroying the pillars that Hoohooros is NOT hiding behind!
Big Tail Goomba
Captain Shy Guy
MARIO! Avoid Bowser's attacks by jumping!
Press the  Button when a fireball approaches!
And that about brings our Hammer lesson to an end. See ya later!
Select Bros. Attack to have Mario and Luigi work together to perform a special attack!
The pillars fire beam attacks dead ahead, so pay attention to the positions of the pillars.
Koopa Paratroopa
Captain Boo (Gold)
Ugh...
Argh...
Are you still conscious? Ugh. You're a persistent pair!
Attack enemies with commands like JUMP and HAMMER to inflict damage. Victory is yours when their HP goes down to zero.
You can deal even more damage to enemies by successfully following button prompts during a Bros. Attack.
Beating Spiny Cheep Cheeps
When his time bomb's counter reaches zero, it will explode and it will be game over.
Lakitu
Captain Boo
Gahhhh! What? Huh? HEY!!! What's happening to me?!?
Deal additional damage when attacking by pressing the right button and moving the Circle Pad at the right time.
Using these attacks will consume BP. You can restore BP by using items like Syrup.
If you're having trouble beating him before the counter runs out, level up or change your equipment to up your POW.
Fire Bro
ROOOOOAAAAAR!!!
I shall dispose of you quickly and then eat you for lunch!
The button you need to press for this varies depending on the attack. Read the explanation on the bottom screen after selecting an action.
Anuboo's Habits
Bill Blasters are straight shooters. Note where they're facing and get outta the way! Stomp a Bullet Bill to turn it into a coin.
His HP is somewhat low, so pummel him with Bros. Attacks to beat him quickly.
Shy Guy
GAHH!
The timing of your button presses will earn one of four possible ratings. Try to aim for the highest rating: Excellent!
Roy's No Toy!
Hoohooros Appears
Lemmy
Ice Bro
Feel free to check the guide if there's anything you wanna brush up on!
NO! Cursed Mario Bros! Not again...
Luigi
Ludwig
Para-Beetle
Fools! You let your guards down!
Even with all your fancy attacks, you can't beat me!
Press  when Luigi swings his Hammer over his head. Mario will become Mini Mario!
Hammers won't hit these flying foes. They heal their allies, so take them out first using Jump attacks.
Their bubbles can be popped with a jump. The small bubbles are difficult to avoid, so try to bust them with your jumps!
Roy
When Luigi jumps, tap the  Button! This will spin Mini Mario around at high speed!
Hints for Strong Enemies
They shoot big bubbles after turning over. These move fast, so if you keep missing, trying swinging your Hammer earlier.
DEF shows a character's defense. The bigger that number is, the less damage that character will receive in battle.
Wendy
Limbo Bro
Get many consecutive hits for an Excellent! You can attack enemies several times.
Tolstar Appears
Even as Rookie, Bowser's Still Bowser!
Queen Bean Appears
When attacked, they will counter by throwing a pillow or two. Defeat them quickly using Bros. Attacks.
Larry
Elite Chuck Guy
Athpthpth! How fruthtrating! It ith time to thpeed things up!
During the attack, you can change the foe you are targeting.
While Jojora is in battle, she'll heal whatever damage you inflict, so try to get her to leave the battlefield.
Enraged Status
Elite Pestnuts are spiky, so attack them with Hammers. When their HP drops, their spikes fall off and they turn into Beanies!
The color of their toy indicates who they have targeted to attack. Red means Mario and green means Luigi.
Time Bob-omb
Mecha-Blooper
What are you doing to my pretty decorathion?!?
No more, thtupids!!!
When Mario starts to move forward, move the Circle Pad toward the foe you want to target.
While Jojora is in battle, she'll heal whatever damage you inflict, so try to get her to leave the battlefield.
When Jojora gets close, she'll attack with a large icicle. Defend with your Hammer! If you succeed, Jojora will leave.
They're known to feign attacks at times. If they spin their toy counter-clockwise, they won't attack. Pay close attention!
Malibut
When Jojora gets close, she'll attack with a large icicle. Defend with your Hammer! If you succeed, Jojora will leave.
While Jojora is in battle, she'll heal whatever damage you inflict, so try to get her to leave the battlefield.
If you attack Teeheena with Jojora there, Jojora will get mad and make it snow. If this happens, mash  and !
Beat Viruses All at Once
Spiny Cheep Cheep
If you attack Chucklissa with Jojora there, Jojora will get mad and make it snow. If this happens, mash  and !
When Jojora gets close, she'll attack with a large icicle. Defend with your Hammer! If you succeed, Jojora will leave.
When Teeheena's hair turns pink, she has become strong against your Firebrand attack.
Start with Lakipea
Press the  Button when the Hammer is above Luigi's head! Time it perfectly to earn an Excellent rating.
Spiny Cheep Cheep
When Mario throws a fireball, press the  Button quickly to make it grow.
When Chucklissa's hair turns pink, she has become strong against your Firebrand attack.
If you attack Oholina with Jojora there, Jojora will get mad and make it snow. If this happens, mash  and !
When her hair is blonde, you can land critical hits against her with Firebrand.
Press  after you land. If your timing is right, you will score an extra attack! Time all of your attacks well and aim for an Excellent rating.
Starkiss
HEAVY G
When the fire gets close to Luigi, hit it by pressing the  Button!
When her hair is blonde, you can land critical hits against her with Firebrand.
When Oholina's hair turns pink, she has become strong against your Firebrand attack.
Watch your HP, as she can MAX POISON you and deal heavy damage with her attacks.
Defeating Piranha Bean
Beanerang Bro
The bigger the flame, the better your chances of an Excellent! And the more damage you'll deal!
Watch your HP, as she can MAX POISON you and deal heavy damage with her attacks.
When her hair is blonde, you can land critical hits against her with Firebrand.
Use Refreshing Herbs to recover from the MAX POISON status effect.
Defeating Popple
Elite Gritty Goomba
One tiny Trunkle is hiding the weak point. When you attack, the weak point will be revealed in his mouth. Pay close attention!
Use Refreshing Herbs to recover from the MAX POISON status effect.
Watch your HP, as she can MAX POISON you and deal heavy damage with her attacks.
Besting Malibuts
Easy Mode
HAND
Goomba
Splash Bros.
In time, Trunkle will return to normal size. After splitting, he won't protect his weak point. Focus your attacks there!
Use Refreshing Herbs to recover from the MAX POISON status effect.
Beating the Hammer Bros.
Jump on Dry Bones's Head
Fighter Fly
Chargin' Chuck
Bounce Bros.
Chuck Guys Call for Backup
Bill Blaster
Koopa Troopa
Chopper Bros.
Cackletta Appears!
You can't damage Fawful by attacking his machine, but he will temporarily vacate it if you hit it eight times.
If you select Easy Mode, Mario and Luigi will become stronger, and enemies will be easier to defeat. *Easy Mode can be disabled in the Options menu.
Beanie
Knockback Bros.
Press  when Luigi swings his Hammer over his head. Mario will become Mini Mario!
Press  when Luigi builds up thunder. When Mario's Hammer is above his head, press !
Use Jump attacks, Knockback Bros., and moves that hit multiple times when attacking his mechanism.
Fly Guy
Learned Super Splash Bros!
Press the  Button whenever Luigi's Hammer is about to hit Mario!
Swing Bros.
When Luigi gets to the base of the foe's feet, press the  Button for an Excellent rating!
When blocks fall down from above, press the button inputs quickly to break all of the blocks.
Jojora and Chucklissa Appear
Dry Bones
Private Goomp
Learned Super Bounce Bros!
Press  when Mario hits an enemy. Nail all button inputs to earn an Excellent rating!
Successfully earn a Good rating or better to cause an item to drop.
Fire Bros.
If you succeed, there's a chance you'll lower the enemy's POW.
Birdo is a powerful opponent with unique abilites, such as inhaling Mario and Luigi and placing Popple in a protective egg.
When he fires a yellow orb straight up, watch the orb's shadow to see where it will strike.
He uses magic to change your status attributes. Use the bottom screen to see which were affected!
Mind Sharpea's Spikes
Perform a Jump attack to make him shorter and easier to dodge.
Watch for Spiny's Spikes
When the counter on her time bomb reaches zero, it's game over. You must win the battle before that happens.
Press the  Button when you're fully charged! Try for an Excellent rating.
Rex
Broozer
Learned Super Chopper Bros!
Press  when Luigi and Mario hold hands! Keep holding the button to make them spin around.
Thunder Bros.
Super Cyclone Bros.
Besting Beanerang Bros.
Birdo's vacuum attack pulls Mario and Luigi towards her, so swing those Hammers when you're in range!
Watch his arm before he tackles. If he spins his right arm, he will target Mario. If he spins his left arm, it will be Luigi.
There are times when your status will actually be improved. If your POW or LV increases, keep attacking until you win!
When he spits out rocks, he may climb atop one and attack from above.
She'll make clones of herself, so find and attack her true self! Clones will disappear if attacked.
Buzzy Beetle
Magikoopa
POISON
Learned Super Knockback Bros!
This won't affect flying enemies.
They will keep spinning faster. The faster they spin, the more damage they will deal.
Cyclone Bros.
If you deal damage to Popple, Birdo will swallow him and spit out four eggs.
Almost all of his attacks cause the HEAVY G status effect. Remember to use Refreshing Herbs!
If your DEF is lowered, mind your HP. Try to survive until the magic wears off.
He's known to split suddenly, so find and defeat his real self. Clones go down as soon as they're attacked!
His attacks from atop a rock are hard to avoid, so make destroying rocks a priority. 
If you defeat Bowser first, Popple will run from battle.
If you feel enemies are too strong, try checking your level and gear.
Her ring toss attacks will target Mario if they spin counterclockwise and Luigi if they spin clockwise.
Bandit
Sniper Bill
Learned Super Swing Bros!
Press the  Button when Mario swings his Hammer over his head.
When Mario and Luigi reach top speed, let go of the  Button!
An entry was added to the Battle Guide!
They tend to change their shape to mirror what they're attacking. Try to avoid their attacks by jumping when their eyes flash!
Popple is in one of those four eggs, so attack to crack them open. Beware! Some eggs are holding Bob-ombs.
Trunkle Appears
Magikoopa's Magic Is a Menace
If you lose track of the real Lemmy, you can defeat them all using an area attack such as Thunder Bros. or Super Fire Bros.
Mom Piranha Appears
Popple has a rare piece of equipment, so defeating him first is advised.
If the level of Mario and Luigi's enemies is higher than theirs, try defeating weaker, lower-level enemies to raise their levels.
Even if you dodge the rings, they won't go away. They'll try to hit you again, so be sure to jump out of the way.
Spear Guy
Chomp Bro
Learned Super Fire Bros!
You have annoying persistence! And now you eat this!
When Luigi is directly under the enemy, press  to knock them into the air!
Press  when Luigi collides with a foe! Nail all button inputs to earn an Excellent rating!
Choose the Hand Attack to have Mario attack with fire and Luigi attack with thunder.
Check it out whenever you want to by selecting GUIDE on the bottom screen.
When the eggs roll towards you, the one that bounces high when hit with a Hammer contains Popple.
The battle will start with you attacking her right hand, left hand, and head.
Before attacking with fireballs, each clone will point at their target. Keep watch and be prepared to dodge!
Make Room for Morton!
An enemy's level is displayed next to its name.
Goomba Tower
Boo
TRIP
Learned Super Thunder Bros!
Press  before Luigi jumps on Mario. Press when both are directly above the enemy!
If you knock Luigi back into the ground, you can hit your foe into the air again.
Press the  Button when Mario and Luigi touch to make them join together!
You can see Mario's and Luigi's various stats by checking out Status on the menu screen.
You will deal extra damage to enemies if you exploit their elemental weakness.
Each of these locations has its own weak point. Her head is weak to fire and thunder attacks.
He attacks with fireballs that you can knock back with a Hammer and shock waves that you can jump over.
When you acquire new equipment, check it out in the Gear section of the menu screen.
Beware Splitting Glurps
Tolstar
Learned Super Cyclone Bros!
Press the  Button when jumping on an enemy. Time all jumps well to get an Excellent rating!
To knock Luigi back underground, press the  Button when Luigi hits the ground.
Press  and  at once when you stomp on a foe. Don't let go to earn an Excellent rating!
Attributes are separated into HP, BP, POW, DEF, SPEED, and STACHE.
Her right hand is weak to fire, and her left hand is weak to thunder. Attack these weaknesses to prevail.
Mario's Firebrand attacks heal them. Restore their HP to maximum and they will be so satisfied they'll leave.
The fire he breathes shows who he has targeted. The right side means Mario, left means Luigi. Both sides means both!
If you find yourself getting pummeled by enemy attacks, try using gear that raises your HP and DEF.
They will catch fire and start running when attacked with Firebrand and inflicted with the BURN status.
JUMP
Bowser
Then, press  when the foe hits the ground to make submerged Luigi knock them sky high!
HP shows a character's health. Taking damage causes it to decrease. Characters will faint if their HP reaches zero.
When you've defeated these three parts, a heart will appear from the body, just waiting to be attacked.
Bowser and Popple Appear AGAIN!
The number of spins he does mid-air shows how many shock waves he'll send your way.
Popple Appears Alone
It will attack Mario if it shows its right arm. It will attack Luigi if it shows its left arm.
If they have allies with them, they will all attack at the same time. Be mindful of their movements!
Fawful
... Continue this rhythm eight times to earn an Excellent rating!
Super Fire Bros.
BP shows how many Bros. Points you have. These are necessary for Bros. Attacks and will diminish as you use them.
Cackletta's heart is her weak point. Fire and thunder attacks will heal it, so use other kinds of Bros. Attacks.
Watch for Bros. Attacks!
The shape and timing of the shock waves will change based on his jumping position. Watch the shock waves closely to dodge.
It attacks quickly, so watch these signals! You'll get hit if you jump during the attack it makes after bending its body backwards.
The Nut item is useful because it heals both Bros. at the same time.
Mechakoopa
Fawful
POW shows a character's strength. The bigger that number is, the more damage that character will deal in battle.
Her heart is only visible for a short time, so mind how you use your remaining BP.
Besting Bowletta
The strongest baddie in Stardust Fields. Pile on the Bros. Attacks to win!
They normally charge straight ahead. When attacked, they break and change their path mid-charge.
Morton's attacks are brutal and his HP is high, so pile on the Bros. Attacks to take him down.
Items can be used outside of battle as well. Use Mushrooms to heal HP when it has gotten low.
Cackletta
DEF shows a character's defense. The bigger that number is, the less damage that character will receive in battle.
Trunkle's weak point is the yellow fruit on his head. He will get angry and guard if you attack him there, so attack his body first.
Jumping on the orbs he throws hurts you. Right-handed throws mean he's targeting Mario. Left-handed throws target Luigi.
Paratroopea
Hoohooros
SPEED shows a character's quickness. The bigger that number is, the sooner a character can act in battle.
Select HAMMER to strike an enemy and inflict damage.
He heals himself with a vacuum attack. There are Mushrooms among the stuff he vacuums. Snag them so he can't heal!
If he laughs before attacking, that means he will throw a large bouncing ball. It won't hit you if you don't jump!
Mario & Luigi
Spiny
Defeat all enemies to win a battle and earn EXP for Mario and Luigi. Earn enough and their Levels will increase.
STACHE shows a character's lucky mustache power. A bigger number means more lucky hits and better deals when shopping.
Use the Hammer to attack spiky foes and other enemies that can't be jumped on.
When his HP is low, he divides into smaller Trunkles. One is hiding his weak point. Find that one and focus your attacks!
Rookie
Magikoopa (White)
Super Fly
Green mustache! I'll teach you something useful!
As they grow in level, they will deal additional damage and their HP will increase, all of which will make defeating enemies easier.
Hammers won't hit these flying foes. They heal their allies, so take them out first using Jump attacks.
You can't hit flying foes with Hammers. Try beating them using Jump attacks.
Retry battle?
Popple
Magikoopa (Red)
Pestnut
Count like this...one-and-a-two!
Alrighty! Good stuff!
Oh! And if you jump on a foe to start a battle, you can get an early strike on them!
Learned a little somethin', didn't you? If you ever crave more info, check the guide!
If you feel that enemies are getting too strong, fight foes that are easy for you to defeat, and proceed once you've increased your level.
They puff out their spikes when attacked. When they're puffed out, assail them with Hand attacks and Hammers.
Chuckolator Appears
Popple Runs If Left Alone
Rookie
Magikoopa (Green)
Gold Beanie
If you're having trouble with your Hammer technique, check the guide.
Then again, they say that practice makes perfect!
Listen up, Green. You use the  Button to do stuff!
Attack, defend, WHATEVER. Just press the  Button!
The  Button is for Mario! The  Button is for Green! Don't you forget it!
Super Knockback Bros.
Bubble and Sword Attacks
Jojora and Hoohoolia Appear
Beating Spiky Snifits
Popple
Magikoopa (Blue)
Fuzzbush
Press and hold the button for juuust a bit, and then release it!
Bubbles's Corny Joke Recovery
The two Bros. Attacks that Popple and Bowser perform are extremely powerful.
Mom Piranha
Trunkle
Bowser Jr.
Chuck Guy
Hrm. Your "one-and-a" was too quick!
For one, Bowser throws Popple in the air and then slams him down. This causes two impact waves.
Healing Oho Jee (Blue)
BP shows how many Bros. Points you have. These are necessary for Bros. Attacks and will diminish as you use them.
Chomp Bro
Starlow
Hammer Bro
Welp, that's the gist of it!
Give it your best shot and practice what you learned!
Hint messages will appear while Easy Mode is activated, or if you are defeated and choose to retry a battle.
It can shoot bubbles and attack with a sword. The shape of its arm shows which type of attack it will perform.
For the other, Bowser sets fire to Popple and then throws him.
Mario
Trunkle
Prince Peasley
Laser Snifit
Press the  Button.
Mario and Luigi lose HP when they are damaged by attacks. If either of them reaches 0 HP, they will faint and be unable to move.
Character Targeting
To view hints, press the Hint icon in the center of the bottom screen.
A bubble gun shape means it will attack where its arm is pointing. Try to jump as it's firing!
Bowser will move forward spinning his arm. He'll throw Popple when he stops, so be ready to swing your Hammer!
Cackletta
Mecha-Fawful X
Release the  Button.
If Mario's and Luigi's HP both reach 0, it's game over!
Using Bros. Attacks
Hint messages contain valuable information, as well as tricks for defeating enemies. When you see a hint, try putting it to the test!
A sword shape means it will attack after moving, so watch to see where it moves to.
Luigi's Thunderhand attacks heal them. Restore their HP to maximum and they will be so satisfied they'll leave.
Be Leery of Larry!
Mecha-Blooper's Counterattacks
Heart
Mecha-Fawful Y
ONE-AND-A-TWO!
If that happens, you will have the option of retrying that battle from the beginning, or you can restart from your last save.
Emergency Guard
Stay on guard after breaking its shield! At that point it will start doing combo attacks with its sword and bubble gun.
Press the  Button when the Hammer is above Mario's head! Time it perfectly to earn an Excellent rating.
Right Arm
Mecha-Fawful Z
See? That's how long you need to press it down.
Time for this to end!
Super Bounce Bros.
If a bro's HP gets low, or if they pass out, choose the Item block and use an item to recover.
Easy Mode
Conquering Fawful
He throws various objects from his bag. Look closely at what he's throwing and move out of the way.
Hermie III Appears
Left Arm
All riiiight. We'll start with how to attack.
What did you jerks do to my friend?!? How dare you?
You are so uncool!
Restore HP by using a Mushroom.
Hints
The Bob-ombs he throws deal a lot of damage, so don't let your guard down. Be mindful of your remaining HP!
Beware of Wicked Wendy!
Right Claw
Rat-fink! Have as many hittings of me as you wish— the resulting will be the same!
If Mario or Luigi faint during battle, use a 1-Up Mushroom to help them recover.
Easy Attack Mode
At the start of battle, she'll create holes for Mario and Luigi to fall in to deal damage. Jump to avoid them!
If you attack by jumping, you'll be damaged by the spikes on their backs. Try attacking with a Hammer instead.
He'll try to steal your Hammers as well. Attacking will cause him to drop your Hammer, so don't let up!
SPEED shows a character's quickness. The bigger that number is, the sooner a character can act in battle.
Hoohoolia
Right Claw
Agh-agh-agh!
Using items will eat into your supplies. You can acquire more items by defeating enemies or by purchasing them at shops.
Hold down the  Button during enemy attacks to guard. This will decrease the amount of damage you receive.
HAMMER Attacks
When she splits into clones, they will all shuffle when her real self laughs. Don't lose sight of where the real Cackletta is!
Defeating Pestnuts
Dragohoho Appears
If a tug-of-war starts over your Hammer, tap the displayed button quickly to get it back.
HAMMER
Teeheena
Left Claw
Jumping is prohibited!
Select JUMP to stomp on an enemy and inflict damage.
If you encounter a foe that you can't defeat, use the Run block to flee. Run too often, however, and your team won't get stronger!
All monster attacks can be avoided, so there is no need to use Emergency Guard if you are confident you can dodge in time.
HAMMER Guard
Cackletta attacks with lightning. If she raises her right hand, she will attack Mario. If the left, she will attack Luigi.
Jump on Parabeanies
Chuck Guys can summon allies into battle. Defeat them quickly!
Teeheena
Goomdiver
Command Block added!
LIGHT G
This type of attack is especially effective against flying units.
Try using Emergency Guard for enemy attacks that you don't think you can otherwise avoid.
HAND Attacks
If she raises both hands, she will attack both Bros. at once. Only the real Cackletta can attack this way.
 LV
Popple
Goomdiver
Bahahaha! Prepare to be royally clobbered!
Status Effects
Which Tiny Trunkle Is Which
All of her attacks are powerful, so mind your remaining HP.
Birdo
Blooper
I switched your strengths, punks! BAHAHAHA, thank me later!
Birdo
Spike
Elite Pestnut
Bwahaha! You should've known I'm more than you can handle!
Try to beat them all before they split and up their numbers. Jump and Hammer attacks won't do, but they're weak to Hand attacks.
Egg
Sledge
Piranha Plant
????
I'm going all-out right from the start! It's max-power Ludwig time, baby!
Press  when Luigi swings his Hammer over his head. Mario will become Mini Mario!
If their fuse is lit, they're set to explode. Lit fuses can be extinguished with Jump attacks, so put them out right away.
Attacking Popple will cause Bowser to counterattack, so be careful!
Press the  Button when you're fully charged! Try for an Excellent rating.
Popple
Mallet
Piranha Plant
MAX POISON
When this reaches zero, it's game over!
When Luigi jumps, tap the  Button! This will spin Mini Mario around at high speed!
There are certain behaviors that can help you predict who an enemy will attack. Try to spot any and all tells!
They throw several Hammers at once. Those thrown with the right hand target Mario. Left-handed throws target Luigi.
If he jumps before he attacks, he has targeted Mario. If not, he has targeted Luigi.
Iggy
Gritty Goomba
Hey, Mario!
Check the guide to learn how to practice your attacks during battle!
Hey, stupid face! Yeah, you! Check this out...
When Mario throws a fireball, press the  Button quickly to make it grow.
Get many consecutive hits for an Excellent! You can attack enemies several times.
There are fixed buttons to control Mario and Luigi. Move Mario with the  Button, and move Luigi with the  Button.
You can also tap the Assist icon on the bottom screen to turn assist ON or OFF.
Hammers fall in the order they are thrown. Remember which were thrown by which hand and hit them with your Hammer.
He has high HP and DEF, so don't skimp on the Bros. Attacks.
If you defeat Birdo first, Popple will flee the battle.
Beating Piranha Plants (Blue)
Morton
Spiky Snifit
When the fire gets close to Luigi, hit it by pressing the  Button!
During the attack, you can change the foe you are targeting.
When it's Mario or Luigi's turn to act, select a Command Block to perform an action.
Turn assist ON to mark the character who is being targeted by an enemy's attack.
If you want Popple's rare item, defeat him first!
Beware Pilfering Boos
Defeating Yo Bros.
Anuboo
Press  when Mario and the fire are the same height! A larger flame may earn an Excellent!
When Mario starts to move forward, move the Circle Pad toward the foe you want to target.
Select a block by moving the Circle Pad right or left. Press the character's button to confirm.
If a red marker appears beneath Mario, that means he is the one being targeted.
When the counter on his time bomb reaches zero, it's game over. You must win the battle before then!
However, note that if you defeat Popple first, Birdo will get angry and power up.
Oucher Glass
If you succeed, there's a chance you'll inflict the BURN status on your enemy.
In the Super version, an additional attack can be made at the end.
Battle and defeat all of the enemies to win. You can start by selecting the JUMP block to begin attacking.
If a green marker appears beneath Luigi, that means he is the one being targeted.
You can now add bonus points to a status attribute of your choice.
Iggy Steps Up!
Hit his fireballs with a Hammer and he will hit them back with a racket, beginning a game of back-and-forth.
This can be used to attack spiky enemies.
When Mario and Luigi stop spinning, press the  Button to prepare for the finisher.
If you're having trouble figuring out who an enemy is targeting, try turning assist ON.
Watch the Bill Blaster!
This will continue until he performs one last smash at the end.
Retry
When Mario climbs on top of Luigi, press →→ to the rhythm.
Press  when Luigi builds up his thunder.
Finish by pressing  when the Hammer is overhead! This can make enemies dizzy.
Popple and Birdo Appear
Before this final smash, Larry will hold his racket above his head, so stay on the lookout!
Scaratroopeas Are Trouble
Finish by pressing the  Button! Press it when you jump on the enemy to get an Excellent!
Press  when Luigi gets on top of Mario to perform a big jump!
Fireballs hit with this smash will travel very quickly. Note Larry's timing so you can hit them back!
Taking Down Tanoombas
Press  when Luigi is highest in his jump. Get an Excellent to deal heavy damage!
If the right lens of their shades sparkles, they will attack Mario. If the left lens sparkles, they will attack Luigi.
Paragoomba
If you succeed, there's a chance you'll lower the enemy's DEF.
Watch out for their boomerangs, which have two flight patterns: a direct throw to hit one Bro and a sideways throw to hit both.
Using Bob-ombs
Wigglers begin fights enraged, so attack various parts of their body until they are completely yellow.
Eradicating Elite Pestnuts
Hermie III will attack quickly after raising his claws. Jump to move out of the way.
DIZZY
The Final Battle!
When their whole body is yellow again, they will calm down, allowing you to attack their head and deal damage.
If you're having trouble performing attacks successfully, try using the DEMO or PRACTICE features.
He can't counterattack if you break his claws, so focus on those first.
You cannot deal damage to their body. This will only make them angry again. Attack their head when they've calmed.
You can only use Luigi for this battle, so Bros. Attacks. aren't an option. Mind your remaining HP while you fight!
If you still can't quite get the hang of it, try enabling Easy Attack Mode.
When his HP is low, he'll hide in his shell. Use Firebrand to make him emerge.
Elite Troopea
Thunder is its weakness, so attack it using Luigi's Hand Attacks.
To learn more about these options, read "Watch and Learn" and "Easy Attack Mode" in the Battle Guide.
Firebrand attacks will heal them, but Thunderhand attacks are their weakness. Try to land a critical hit!
Press  when Luigi and Mario hold hands! Keep holding the button to make them spin around.
Start with Paratroopea
If you're having trouble avoiding attacks, try using a Boo Biscuit.
STACHE shows a character's lucky mustache power. A bigger number means more lucky hits and better deals when shopping.
POW shows a character's strength. The bigger that number is, the more damage that character will deal in battle.
Piranha Bean
They will keep spinning faster. The faster they spin, the more damage they will deal.
This will make you immune to damage for a limited time, allowing you to take a breather and observe your enemies.
If they spin to their right, they'll attack Mario. If they spin to their left, it'll be Luigi. Pay attention to these signals!
Fawful
Glurp
When Mario and Luigi reach top speed, let go of the  Button!
Conquering Eekers
Snag the Sworm's Treasure
Beating Chomp Bros.
Fawful
Ice Snifit
If you want to learn all about Bros. Attacks, check the guide!
Press  when Luigi collides with a foe! Pull it off flawlessly to earn an Excellent rating!
Clumph
If you keep using Bros. Attacks, you may eventually learn new Super versions of those moves!
Deploy these skills in battle often!
Which is the real me? Do you idiots know?
Sand Cheep and Sharkbone
HAND
Scaratroopea
You don't have enough Bros. Points!
BP is the source of bro power. Run out and you can't use Bros. Attacks!
But for now... We'll lend you some of our power!
Command Block added!
EEYAH HA HA!
Mechakoopa Manual
Bowletta
Elite Dry Bones
With this you'll be able to take another crack at doing a Bros. Attack!
Tenacious little boys, aren't you? I'm too busy for such games!
There are times when certain enemy attacks will cause status changes in battle.
When attacked, their color changes from Red → Blue → Yellow. Make them all the same color to defeat them all at once.
Queen Bean
Elite Limbo Bro
Oh, and we'll go ahead and restore the BP you used up while training!
Eeyah ha...HUURGH!
Press the  Button when Mario swings his Hammer over his head.
When a status change takes effect, you may have your actions limited, or your HP may decrease.
JUMP
Right Arm
Parabeanie
Gunner Guy
First, you'll need to select Bros. Attack!
You NEVER touch a lady without her permission!
Press the  Button when Mario jumps on Luigi to pop up.
These effects will heal over time. You can recover from status effects faster by using a Refreshing Herb.
This rare breed of Beanie will earn you a ton of coins and EXP. Sometimes they may even drop extremely rare badges!
Magikoopa uses magic to power up himself and his allies. He can cure many status effects for your foes, so defeat him first!
Return to Title Screen
Left Arm
Sworm
Eeek! Uncool! You creep!
Tap the  Button once Mario descends to the same height as the enemy!
Look Out for Lemmy!
Popple Runs If Left Alone
If you attack by jumping, you'll be damaged by the spikes on their backs. Always attack them with a Hammer.
Chuckolator
Koopa Paratroopa (Red)
Sharpea
Gah! That mustache guy... Does he like me?
Super Thunder Bros.
While Jojora is in battle, she'll heal whatever damage you inflict, so try to get her to leave the battlefield.
When Spinies draw near, hit them quickly with a Hammer to stop their attack.
Corporal Paraplonk
Lakipea
When Jojora gets close, she'll attack with a large icicle. Defend with your Hammer! If you succeed, Jojora will leave.
When an enemy's HP is low, they will become enraged. This status makes them shine and power up. Watch your HP!
If a small Bullet Bill takes the lead, jump on it so you can stomp the big Bullet Bill afterward. If a big Bullet Bill comes first, jump over both of them!
When they attack, there's a chance they will steal a Command Block. Defeat them to get it back!
Boomerang Bro
Tanoomba
If you attack Hoohoolia with Jojora there, Jojora will get mad and make it snow. If this happens, mash  and !
Sergeant Guy
Bob-omb
You can perform a Hammer Guard during an enemy attack when Mario and Luigi are holding out their Hammers.
If their HP gets low, they will turn red and power up. Defeat them with a flurry of focused attacks.
When Hoohoolia's hair turns pink, she has become strong against your Firebrand attack.
When any of her arms are raised, it's hard to deal damage to her.
Thunderhand attacks will heal them, but Firebrand attacks are their weakness. Try to land a critical hit!
Bomb Boo
Press the  Button before Mario jumps on Luigi.
If you make contact with an enemy, a battle will start!
Keep their character buttons pressed down to make them hold their Hammers up.
When her hair is blonde, you can land critical hits against her with Firebrand.
Inflict damage on both her arms to make her lower them. This makes her susceptible to damage.
Trunkle
Tail Boo
Troopea
Press the  Button when Mario is directly over Luigi.
If you initiate an encounter by jumping on an enemy, they will receive damage at the start of battle.
When they are holding their Hammers above their heads, release the buttons to swing the Hammers down.
Watch your HP, as she can MAX POISON you and deal heavy damage with her attacks.
Queen Bean will perform a powerful attack if she gets close. When she's within range, drive her back with Hammer attacks!
Cancel
Bowletta
Big Boo
Pillar
Press  when they smash into the enemy. Time button inputs well for an Excellent rating!
Use Refreshing Herbs to recover from the MAX POISON status effect.
Press  after you land. If your timing is right, you will score an extra attack! Time all of your attacks well and aim for an Excellent rating.
Flaret
Fire Stalking Piranha Pl.
Super Swing Bros.
Basics #1: Command and Attack
Jojora and Teeheena Appear
Pestnuts are spiky, so attack them with Hammers. When their HP drops, their spikes fall off and they turn into Beanies!
Healing Oho Jee (Red)
Elite Troopeas Are Trouble
When Mom Piranha attacks alongside her Piranha Plants, it makes for a rather frightening confrontation.
Cackletta
Pokey
Hoho Stone
Hmph! Not bad. Not bad at all!
But how about THIS!?!
Nyeeeeck!
Nyeck nyeck! Isn't that a nasty attack?
Even watching the hand I throw with won't help you!
He's attacking YOU, Mario!
All enemies have a hint in their attacks.
So keep your eyes on them.
Fink-rat!!!
Fink-rat!!!
Have you readiness for this?!?
Have you readiness for this?!?
Ooof!
Now is when I ram you!
Ugh... Shut up, fink-rat!
Blargh!
Uhnnrgh... How could fink-rats like you beat such an awful nasty as me?
Headgear!
I have fury!
Urk!
Ew...
Ow... Grrrr...
Hey, wanna dodge this nut's attacks? 
No
Yes
Have it your way...
The mumbling! Stop it, fink-rat!
Before he attacks... watch what he says... really carefully!
Such mumbling! Stop it, fink-rat!
When you see red...
Let us begin!
You may have defeated my darling, but that's as far as you go!
I will protect you!
St-Stop it! STOP IT!
I'll be taking that, see?
Grrrrrr! Boo, I say! I'll... I'll remember this!
Ah! Rookie!
Great work, Rookie! You just keep at it, see?
Oh... Ohhhh...
I got heartburn...
For some reason, fighting these guys...
makes my gut flare up something fierce...
Whoa! That was spicy!
How dare you guys try to mess with Boss!
Boss!! Nooooooo!!!
Hey, Boss!
These two guys are tougher than I thought!
Ah! Rookie!
I guess we got no choice, see? Use THAT technique!!!
D-Did you see that?!?
Hack! Koff! Th-That was our... Bros. Attack!
Who hears hoarse horses?
Funny pigs are real hams!
Do bats like baseball?
What do sheep count to sleep?
Do drawers wear drawers?
